SOL

ARIU

M
CO
I

Y
.C

MMISS

B E R S PA

C

E

O

N

U.

S

CO-CHAIRMEN

MARCH 2020

Senator Angus King (I-Maine)
Representative Mike Gallagher (R-Wisconsin)

A WARNING FROM
TOMORROW
By Peter Singer and August Cole
You spend your whole career on Capitol Hill hoping for an office with a window.
Then when you finally get it, all you want to do is look away.
They set up our emergency offsite for essential Senate staff in vacant offices once belonging to
one of the contractors that lobbied us before they went belly-up last year. The offices are in a
high-rise in Rosslyn, with a literal million-dollar view; looking across the Potomac River, you can
see past the National Mall and the monuments all the way into downtown DC.
And it just breaks your heart.
The rainbow of colors in the window paints how everything went so wrong, so fast. The
water in the Potomac still has that red tint from when the treatment plants upstream were
hacked, their automated systems tricked into flushing out the wrong mix of chemicals.
By comparison, the water in the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool has a purple glint to it.
They’ve pumped out the floodwaters that covered Washington’s low-lying areas after the
region’s reservoirs were hit in a cascade of sensor hacks. But the surge left behind an oily
sludge that will linger for who knows how long. That’s what you get from deciding in the
18th century to put your capital city in low-lying swampland and then in the 21st century
wiring up all its infrastructure to an insecure network. All around the Mall you can see the
black smudges of the delivery drones and air taxis that were remotely hijacked to crash into
crowds of innocents like fiery meteors. And in the open spaces and parks beyond, tiny dots
of bright colors smear together like some kind of tragic pointillist painting. These are the
camping tents and makeshift shelters of the refugees who fled the toxic railroad accident
caused by the control system failure in Baltimore. FEMA says it’s safe to go back, now that
the chemical cloud has dissipated. But with all the churn and disinfo on social media, no one
knows who or what to trust. Last night, the orange of their campfires was like a vigil of the
obstinate, waiting for everything to just return to the way it was.
But it won’t.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

i

A knock on the door shakes me out of it. It’s the legislative director, checking back in. She’s
anxious because the boss promised that we’d get a draft of the bill out tonight to all the
other committees that touch on cybersecurity. No cars are online and nobody wants to risk
the Metro after what happened on the Blue Line, though, so it’ll mean hours of walking from
office to office. At least the irony of backpacking around paper printouts of new cybersecurity laws will be lost on no one.
I tell her that I’ll get it done and turn back to wordsmithing the preamble. I mostly mined the
language from old legislation that someone just like me wrote after the 9/11 attacks. I know
some online troll or talking head on the news will end up calling it lazy, but it’s the closest
anyone can think of as a parallel. Of course, with the servers down, our poor intern had to
run down a paper copy from the Library of Congress.
Whereas, for as long as the United States has been the nation that invented and then
became dependent on the Internet, it has faced online threats; and
Whereas, as these threats grew in scale and frequency, we grew too accustomed to digital
interference in our society, economy, and even elections; and
Whereas, AI and automation changed these networks from use not just for communications
but to connect and operate the “things” that run our physical world; and
Whereas, a new type of vulnerability thus emerged, where software could be not just a
means of theft, but a weapon of disruption and even physical destruction; and
Whereas, our government and industry failed to keep pace with this change of technology
and threat, being ill-organized and ill-prepared; and
Whereas, these vulnerabilities have just been exploited in extraordinary acts of treacherous
violence that caused massive loss of life and effectively held the nation hostage; and
Whereas, such acts continue to pose a threat to the national security and very way of life of
the United States;
Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, that the government of the United States must…1
“Must” what?
What can we really do? No matter what legislation we pass now, after everything that’s
happened, we’re too late.

ii

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

THE CHALLENGE

1

8

The Threat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8

Reform the U.S. Government’s Structure
and Organization for Cyberspace  .  .  . 31
Strengthen Norms and
Non-military Tools .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46
Promote National Resilience  .  .  .  .  .  . 54

Where Are We Now?  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14

Reshape the Cyber Ecosystem
toward Greater Security  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71

Where Are We Headed? .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17
An Inflection Point .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19

HISTORICAL LEGACY AND
METHODOLOGY

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Operationalize Cybersecurity
Collaboration with the Private Sector . 96
20

Historical Legacy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20

Preserve and Employ the Military
Instrument of Power  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110

APPENDICES

Methodology .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21

Appendix A: Roll-Up of
Recommendations .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123
STRATEGIC APPROACH:
LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

23

Appendix B: Legislative Proposals .  .  . 127
Appendix C: Glossary .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130

The Strategic Logic Of Deterrence .  .  . 26

Appendix D: Abbreviations .  .  .  .  .  . 140

Defend Forward And Layered
Cyber Deterrence .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28

Appendix E: Government
Structure for Cybersecurity  .  .  .  .  .  . 142

The Implementation Of Layered
Cyber Deterrence  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 29

Appendix F: Situating Layered
Cyber Deterrence .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 144
Appendix G: Engagements .  .  .  .  .  . 146
Appendix H: Commissioners .  .  .  .  . 149
Appendix I: Staff List .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 151
Appendix J: Solarium Event
Support .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 154

NOTES

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

155

iii

iv

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

CHAIRMEN’S LETTER

O

ur country is at risk, not only from a catastrophic cyberattack but from millions of daily intrusions disrupting
everything from financial transactions to the inner workings of our electoral system. Capturing the complexity of this
challenge is hard. Even the man credited with inventing the term “cyberspace,” the science fiction author William Gibson,
would later criticize it as an “evocative and essentially meaningless” buzzword.2

In studying this issue, it is easy to descend into a morass of classification, acronyms, jargon, and obscure government organization charts. To avoid that, we tried something different: an unclassified report that we hope will be found readable by
the very people who are affected by cyber insecurity—everyone. This report is also aimed squarely at action; it has numerous
recommendations addressing organizational, policy, and technical issues, and we included an appendix with draft bills that
Congress can rapidly act upon to put these ideas into practice and make America more secure.
The reality is that we are dangerously insecure in cyber. Your entire life—your paycheck, your health care, your electricity—increasingly relies on networks of digital devices that store, process, and analyze data. These networks are vulnerable,
if not already compromised. Our country has lost hundreds of billions of dollars to nation-state-sponsored intellectual
property theft using cyber espionage. A major cyberattack on the nation’s critical infrastructure and economic system would
create chaos and lasting damage exceeding that wreaked by fires in California, floods in the Midwest, and hurricanes in the
Southeast.
To prevent this from happening, our report outlines a new cyber strategy and provides more than 75 recommendations for
action across the public and private sectors. Here are some big ideas to get the conversation started.
First, deterrence is possible in cyberspace. Today most cyber actors feel undeterred, if not emboldened, to target our
personal data and public infrastructure. In other words, through our inability or unwillingness to identify and punish our
cyber adversaries, we are signaling that interfering in American elections or stealing billions in U.S. intellectual property is
acceptable. The federal government and the private sector must defend themselves and strike back with speed and agility.
This is difficult because the government is not optimized to be quick or agile, but we simply must be faster than our adversaries in order to prevent them from destroying our networks and, by extension, our way of life. Our strategy of layered cyber
deterrence is designed with this goal in mind. It combines enhanced resilience with enhanced attribution capabilities and a
clearer signaling strategy with collective action by our partners and allies. It is a simple framework laying out how we evolve
into a hard target, a good ally, and a bad enemy.
Second, deterrence relies on a resilient economy. During the Cold War, our best minds were tasked with developing
Continuity of Government plans to ensure that the government could survive and the nation recover after a nuclear strike.
We need similar planning today to ensure that we can reconstitute in the aftermath of a national-level cyberattack. We
also need to ensure that our economy continues to run. We recommend that the government institute a Continuity of the
Economy plan to ensure that we can rapidly restore critical functions across corporations and industry sectors, and get the
economy back up and running after a catastrophic cyberattack. Such a plan is a fundamental pillar of deterrence—a way to
tell our adversaries that we, as a society, will survive to defeat them with speed and agility if they launch a major cyberattack
against us.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

v

Third, deterrence requires government reform. We need to elevate and empower existing cyber agencies, particularly the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), and create new focal points for coordinating cybersecurity in the
executive branch and Congress. To that end, we recommend the creation of a National Cyber Director with oversight from
new congressional Cybersecurity Committees, but our goal is not to create more bureaucracy with new and duplicative
roles and organizations. Rather, we propose giving existing organizations the tools they need to act with speed and agility
to defend our networks and impose costs on our adversaries. The key is CISA, which we have tried to empower as the lead
agency for federal cybersecurity and the private sector’s preferred partner. We want working at CISA to become so appealing
to young professionals interested in national service that it competes with the NSA, the FBI, Google, and Facebook for toplevel talent (and wins).
Fourth, deterrence will require private-sector entities to step up and strengthen their security posture. Most of our
critical infrastructure is owned by the private sector. That is why we make certain recommendations, such as establishing a
cloud security certification or modernizing corporate accountability reporting requirements. We do not want to saddle the
private sector with onerous and counterproductive regulations, nor do we want to force companies to hand over their data
to the federal government. We are not the Chinese Communist Party, and indeed our best path to beating our adversaries
is to stay free and innovative. But we need C-suite executives to take cyber seriously since they are on the front lines. With
support from the federal government, private-sector entities must be able to act with speed and agility to stop cyberattackers from breaking out in their networks and the larger array of networks on which the nation relies.
Fifth, election security must become a priority. The American people still do not have the assurance that our election systems are secure from foreign manipulation. If we don’t get election security right, deterrence will fail and future generations
will look back with longing and regret on the once powerful American Republic and wonder how we screwed the whole
thing up. We believe we need to continue appropriations to fund election infrastructure modernization at the state and local
levels. At the same time, states and localities need to pay their fair share to secure elections, and they can draw on useful
resources—such as nonprofits that can act with greater speed and agility across all 50 states—to secure elections from the
bottom up rather than waiting for top-down direction and funding. We also need to ensure that regardless of the method of
casting a vote, paper or electronic, a paper audit trail exists (and yes, we recognize the irony of a cyber commission recommending a paper trail).
We didn’t solve everything in this report. We didn’t even agree on everything. There are areas, such as balancing maximum
encryption versus mandatory lawful access to devices, where the best we could do was provide a common statement of
principles. Yet every single Commissioner was willing to make compromises in the course of our work because we were all
united by the recognition that the status quo is not getting the job done. The status quo is inviting attacks on America every
second of every day. The status quo is a slow surrender of American power and responsibility. We all want that to stop. So
please do us, and your fellow Americans, a favor. Read this report and then demand that your government and the private
sector act with speed and agility to secure our cyber future.

Senator Angus King (I-Maine)
Co-Chairman
Cyberspace Solarium Commission

vi

Representative Mike Gallagher (R-Wisconsin)
Co-Chairman
Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
AN URGENT CALL TO ACTION
For over 20 years, nation-states and non-state actors have used cyberspace to subvert American power, American security, and the American way of life. Despite numerous criminal indictments, economic sanctions, and the development of
robust cyber and non-cyber military capabilities, the attacks against the United States have continued. The perpetrators
saw that their onslaught damaged the United States without triggering a significant retaliation. Chinese cyber operators
stole hundreds of billions of dollars in intellectual property to accelerate China’s military and economic rise and undermine
U.S. military dominance.3 Russian operators and their proxies damaged public trust in the integrity of American elections
and democratic institutions.4 China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea all probed U.S. critical infrastructure with impunity.
Criminals leveraged globally connected networks to steal assets from individuals, companies, and governments. Extremist
groups used these networks to raise funds and recruit followers, increasing transnational threats and insecurity. American
restraint was met with unchecked predation.5
The digital connectivity that has brought economic growth, technological dominance, and an improved quality of life
to nearly every American has also created a strategic dilemma. The more digital connections people make and data they
exchange, the more opportunities adversaries have to destroy private lives, disrupt critical infrastructure, and damage our
economic and democratic institutions. The United States now operates in a cyber landscape that requires a level of data
security, resilience, and trustworthiness that neither the U.S. government nor the private sector alone is currently equipped
to provide. Moreover, shortfalls in agility, technical expertise, and unity of effort, both within the U.S. government and
between the public and private sectors, are growing.
The 2019 National Defense Authorization Act chartered the U.S. Cyberspace Solarium Commission to address this challenge.
The President and Congress tasked the Commission to answer two fundamental questions: What strategic approach will defend
the United States against cyberattacks of significant consequences? And what policies and legislation are required to implement
that strategy?

THE STRATEGY
After conducting an extensive study including over 300 interviews, a competitive strategy event modeled after the original
Project Solarium in the Eisenhower administration, and stress tests by external red teams, the Commission advocates a new
strategic approach to cybersecurity: layered cyber deterrence. The desired end state of layered cyber deterrence is a reduced
probability and impact of cyberattacks of significant consequence. The strategy outlines three ways to achieve this end state:
1. Shape behavior. The United States must work with allies and partners to promote responsible behavior in cyberspace.
2. Deny benefits. The United States must deny benefits to adversaries who have long exploited cyberspace to their advantage, to American disadvantage, and at little cost to themselves. This new approach requires securing critical networks in
collaboration with the private sector to promote national resilience and increase the security of the cyber ecosystem.
3. Impose costs. The United States must maintain the capability, capacity, and credibility needed to retaliate against actors
who target America in and through cyberspace.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

1

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Each of the three ways described above involves a deterrent layer that increases American public- and private-sector security by
altering how adversaries perceive the costs and benefits of using cyberspace to attack American interests. These three deterrent
layers are supported by six policy pillars that organize more than 75 recommendations. These pillars represent the means to
implement layered cyber deterrence.
While deterrence is an enduring American strategy, there are two factors that make layered cyber deterrence bold and
distinct. First, the approach prioritizes deterrence by denial, specifically by increasing the defense and security of cyberspace
through resilience and public- and private-sector collaboration. Reducing the vulnerabilities adversaries can target denies
them opportunities to attack American interests through cyberspace. Second, the strategy incorporates the concept of
“defend forward” to reduce the frequency and severity of attacks in cyberspace that do not rise to a level that would warrant
the full spectrum of retaliatory responses, including military responses. Though the concept originated in the Department
of Defense, the Commission integrates defend forward into a national strategy for securing cyberspace using all the instruments of power. Defend forward posits that to disrupt and defeat ongoing adversary campaigns, the United States must proactively observe, pursue, and counter adversaries’ operations and impose costs short of armed conflict. This posture signals to
adversaries that the U.S. government will respond to cyberattacks, even those below the level of armed conflict that do not
cause physical destruction or death, with all the tools at its disposal and consistent with international law.

THE IMPLEMENTATION
Foundation: Government Reform
The three layers of cyber deterrence rest on a common foundation: the need to reform how the U.S. government is organized
to secure cyberspace and respond to attacks. The U.S. government is currently not designed to act with the speed and agility
necessary to defend the country in cyberspace. We must get faster and smarter, improving the government’s ability to organize
concurrent, continuous, and collaborative efforts to build resilience, respond to cyber threats, and preserve military options
that signal a capability and willingness to impose costs on adversaries. Reformed government oversight and organization that is
properly resourced and staffed, in alignment with a strategy of layered cyber deterrence, will enable the United States to reduce
the probability, magnitude, and effects of significant attacks on its networks.
Pillar: Reform the U.S. Government’s Structure and Organization for Cyberspace. While cyberspace has transformed the
American economy and society, the government has not kept up. Existing government structures and jurisdictional boundaries fracture cyber policymaking processes, limit opportunities for government action, and impede cyber operations. Rapid,
comprehensive improvements at all levels of government are necessary to change these dynamics and ensure that the U.S.
government can protect the American people, their way of life, and America’s status as a global leader. Major recommendations in this pillar are:
•

The executive branch should issue an updated National Cyber Strategy (1.1) that reflects the strategic approach of
layered cyber deterrence and emphasizes resilience, public-private collaboration, and defend forward as key elements.

•

Congress should establish House Permanent Select and Senate Select Committees on Cybersecurity (1.2) to provide
integrated oversight of the cybersecurity efforts dispersed across the federal government.

2

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

•

Congress should establish a Senate-confirmed National Cyber Director (NCD) (1.3), supported by an Office of the
NCD, within the Executive Office of the President. The NCD will be the President’s principal advisor for cybersecurity-related issues, as well as lead national-level coordination of cybersecurity strategy and policy, both within government
and with the private sector.

•

Congress should strengthen the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) (1.4) in its mission to
ensure the national resilience of critical infrastructure, promote a more secure cyber ecosystem, and serve as the central
coordinating element to support and integrate federal, state and local, and private-sector cybersecurity efforts. Congress
must invest significant resources in CISA and provide it with clear authorities to realize its full potential.

•

Congress and the executive branch should pass legislation and implement policies designed to better recruit, develop,
and retain cyber talent (1.5) while acting to deepen the pool of candidates for cyber work in the federal government.

Layer 1: Shape Behavior
In the first layer, the strategy calls for shaping responsible behavior and encouraging restraint in cyberspace by strengthening
norms and non-military instruments. Effective norms will not emerge without American leadership. For this reason, the
United States needs to build a coalition of partners and allies to secure its shared interests and values in cyberspace.
Pillar: Strengthen Norms and Non-military Tools. A system of norms, built through international engagement and cooperation, promotes responsible behavior and, over time, dissuades adversaries from using cyber operations to undermine
any nation’s interests. The United States and others have agreed to norms of responsible behavior for cyberspace, but they
go largely unenforced today. The United States can strengthen the current system of cyber norms by using non-military
tools, including law enforcement actions, sanctions, diplomacy, and information sharing, to more effectively persuade
states to conform to these norms and punish those who violate them. Such punishment requires developing the ability
to quickly and accurately attribute cyberattacks. Building a coalition of like-minded allies and partners willing to collectively use these instruments to support a rules-based international order in cyberspace will better hold malign actors
accountable. The major recommendations in this pillar are:
•

Congress should create an Assistant Secretary of State (2.1) in the Department of State, with a new Bureau of
Cyberspace Security and Emerging Technologies, who will lead the U.S. government effort to develop and reinforce
international norms in cyberspace. This will help promote international norms that support and reflect U.S. interests
and values while creating benefits for responsible state behavior through engagement with allies and partners.

•

The executive branch should engage actively and effectively in forums setting international information and communications technology standards (2.1.2). Specifically, the National Institute of Standards and Technology should
facilitate robust and integrated participation by the federal government, academia, professional societies, and industry.

•

Congress should take steps to improve international tools for law enforcement activities in cyberspace (2.1.4),
including streamlining the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty and Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement process and increasing the number of FBI Cyber Assistant Legal Attachés.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

3

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Layer 2: Deny Benefits
In the second layer, the strategy calls for denying benefits to adversaries by promoting national resilience, reshaping the cyber
ecosystem, and advancing the government’s relationship with the private sector to establish an enhanced level of common
situational awareness and joint collaboration. The United States needs a whole-of-nation approach to secure its interests and
institutions in cyberspace.
Pillar: Promote National Resilience. Resilience—the capacity to withstand and quickly recover from attacks that could cause
harm or coerce, deter, restrain, or otherwise shape U.S. behavior—is key to denying adversaries the benefits of their operations and reducing confidence in their ability to achieve their strategic ends. National resilience efforts rely on the ability of
the United States, in both the public and private sectors, to accurately identify, assess, and mitigate risk across all elements
of critical infrastructure. The nation must be sufficiently prepared to respond to and recover from an attack, sustain critical
functions even under degraded conditions, and, in some cases, restart critical functionality after disruption. Major recommendations in this pillar are:
•

Congress should codify responsibilities and ensure sufficient resources (3.1) for the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency and sector-specific agencies in the identification, assessment, and management of national and
sector-specific risk.

•

Congress should direct the U.S. government to develop and maintain Continuity of the Economy planning (3.2) in
consultation with the private sector to ensure continuous operation of critical functions of the economy in the event of
a significant cyber disruption.

•

Congress should codify a Cyber State of Distress tied to a Cyber Response and Recovery Fund (3.3) to ensure
sufficient resources and capacity to respond rapidly to significant cyber incidents.

•

Congress should improve the structure and sustain the funding of the Election Assistance Commission (3.4), enabling
it to increase its operational capacity to support states and localities in defense of the digital election infrastructure that
underpins federal elections and to ensure the widest use of voter-verifiable, auditable, and paper-based voting systems.

•

The U.S. government should promote digital literacy, civics education, and public awareness (3.5) to build societal
resilience to foreign, malign cyber-enabled information operations.

Pillar: Reshape the Cyber Ecosystem toward Greater Security. Raising the baseline level of security across the cyber ecosystem—
the people, processes, data, and technology that constitute and depend on cyberspace—will constrain and limit adversaries’
activities. Over time, this will reduce the frequency, scope, and scale of their cyber operations. Because the vast majority of
this ecosystem is owned and operated by the private sector, scaling up security means partnering with the private sector and
adjusting incentives to produce positive outcomes. In some cases, that requires aligning market forces. In other cases, where
those forces either are not present or do not adequately address risk, the U.S. government must explore legislation, regulation, executive action, and public- as well as private-sector investments. Major recommendations in this pillar are:

4

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

•

Congress should establish and fund a National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority (4.1) empowered to establish and manage a program on security certifications and labeling of information and communications
technology products.

•

Congress should pass a law establishing that final goods assemblers of software, hardware, and firmware are liable
for damages from incidents that exploit known and unpatched vulnerabilities (4.2) for as long as they support a
product or service.

•

Congress should establish a Bureau of Cyber Statistics (4.3) charged with collecting and providing statistical data
on cybersecurity and the cyber ecosystem to inform policymaking and government programs.

•

Congress should resource and direct the Department of Homeland Security to fund a federally funded research and
development center (4.4) to work with state-level regulators to develop certifications for cybersecurity insurance
products.

•

The National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority should develop a cloud security certification (4.5),
in consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Office of Management and Budget, and
the Department of Homeland Security.

•

Congress should direct the U.S. government to develop and implement an industrial base strategy for information
and communications technology to ensure trusted supply chains (4.6) and the availability of critical information
and communications technologies.

•

Congress should pass a national data security and privacy protection law (4.7) establishing and standardizing
requirements for the collection, retention, and sharing of user data.

Pillar: Operationalize Cybersecurity Collaboration with the Private Sector. Unlike in other physical domains, in cyberspace
the government is often not the primary actor. Instead, it must support and enable the private sector. The government
must build and communicate a better understanding of threats, with the specific aim of informing private-sector security operations, directing government operational efforts to counter malicious cyber activities, and ensuring better common situational awareness for collaborative action with the private sector. Further, while recognizing that private-sector
entities have primary responsibility for the defense and security of their networks, the U.S. government must bring
to bear its unique authorities, resources, and intelligence capabilities to support these actors in their defensive efforts.
Major recommendations in this pillar are:
•

Congress should codify the concept of “systemically important critical infrastructure” (5.1), whereby entities
responsible for systems and assets that underpin national critical functions are ensured the full support of the U.S.
government and shoulder additional security requirements befitting their unique status and importance.

•

Congress should establish and fund a Joint Collaborative Environment (5.2), a common and interoperable environment for sharing and fusing threat information, insights, and other relevant data across the federal government and
between the public and private sectors.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

5

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

•

Congress should direct the executive branch to strengthen a public-private, integrated cyber center in CISA (5.3) to
support its critical infrastructure security and resilience mission and to conduct a one-year, comprehensive systems
analysis review of federal cyber and cybersecurity centers.

•

The executive branch should establish a Joint Cyber Planning Cell (5.4) under CISA to coordinate cybersecurity
planning and readiness across the federal government and between the public and private sectors.

Layer 3: Impose Costs
In the final layer, the strategy outlines how to impose costs to deter future malicious behavior and reduce ongoing adversary activities short of armed conflict through the employment of all instruments of power in the defense of cyberspace,
including systemically important critical infrastructure. A key, but not the only, element of cost imposition is the military
instrument of power. Therefore, the United States must maintain the capacity, resilience, and readiness to employ cyber and
non-cyber capabilities across the spectrum of engagement from competition to crisis and conflict. The United States needs
ready and resilient capabilities to thwart and respond to adversary action.
Pillar: Preserve and Employ the Military Instrument of Power—and All Other Options to Deter Cyberattacks at Any Level.
Cyberspace is already an arena of strategic competition, where states project power, protect their interests, and punish their
adversaries. Future contingencies and conflicts will almost certainly contain a cyber component. In this environment, the
United States must defend forward to limit malicious adversary behavior below the level of armed attack, deter conflict, and,
if necessary, prevail by employing the full spectrum of its capabilities, using all the instruments of national power. Examples of
adversary actions below armed attack include cyber-enabled attacks on the U.S. election systems or cyber-enabled intellectual
property theft. To achieve these ends, the U.S. government must demonstrate its ability to impose costs, while establishing a
clear declaratory policy that signals to rival states the costs and risks associated with attacking the United States in cyberspace.
Furthermore, conventional weapons and nuclear capabilities require cybersecurity and resilience to ensure that the United
States preserves credible deterrence and the full range of military response options. The United States must be confident that its
military capabilities will work as intended. Finally, across the spectrum of engagement from competition to crisis and conflict,
the United States must ensure that it has sufficient cyber forces to accomplish strategic objectives in and through cyberspace.
This demands sufficient capacity, capabilities, and streamlined decision-making processes to enable rapid and effective cyber
response options to impose costs against adversaries. Major recommendations in this pillar include:
•

Congress should direct the Department of Defense to conduct a force structure assessment of the Cyber Mission
Force (6.1) to ensure that the United States has the appropriate force structure and capabilities in light of growing
mission requirements and increasing expectations, in both scope and scale. This should include an assessment of the
resource implications for the National Security Agency in its combat support agency role.

•

Congress should direct the Department of Defense to conduct a cybersecurity vulnerability assessment of all segments of the nuclear control systems and continually assess weapon systems’ cyber vulnerabilities (6.2).

•

Congress should require Defense Industrial Base (DIB) participation in threat intelligence sharing programs
(6.2.1) and threat hunting on DIB networks (6.2.2).

6

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

THE WAY FORWARD
The status quo in cyberspace is unacceptable. The current state of affairs invites aggression and establishes a dangerous pattern
of actors attacking the United States without fear of reprisal. Adversaries are increasing their cyber capabilities while U.S.
vulnerabilities continue to grow. There is much that the U.S. government can do to improve its defenses and reduce the risk
of a significant attack, but it is clear that government action alone is not enough. Most of the critical infrastructure that drives
the American economy, spurs technological innovation, and supports the U.S. military resides in the private sector. If the U.S.
government cannot find a way to seamlessly collaborate with the private sector to build a resilient cyber ecosystem, the nation
will never be secure. And, eventually, a massive cyberattack could lead to large-scale physical destruction, sparking a response of
haphazard government overreach that stifles innovation in the digital economy and further erodes American strength.
To avoid these outcomes, the U.S. government must move to adopt the new strategy detailed in this report—layered cyber
deterrence—and the more than 75 recommendations designed to make this approach a reality. The executive branch and
Congress should give these recommendations and the associated legislative proposals close consideration. Congress should also
consider ways to monitor, assess, and report on the implementation of this report’s recommendations over the next two years.

Layered Cyber Deterrence
LAYER 1.
Shape Behavior

Desired
End State
Reduce the
frequency and
severity of cyber
attacks of significant consequence.
Limit the ability of
great powers,
rogue states,
extremists, and
criminals to undermine American
power and
influence.

Build
Partnerships

LAYER 2.
Deny Benefits

Secure
Elections

LAYER 3.
Impose Costs
Foundation
Reform the
U.S. Government

Generate
Cyber
Capabilities
& Capacity

Protect
Critical
Infrastructure
Leverage
Non-military
Instruments

Ensure Continuity
of the Economy

Defend Forward

concurrent, continuous, collaborative

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

7

THE CHALLENGE
THE THREAT
The NotPetya attack illustrates the changing character of
cyber threats. The chaos started in battle-torn Ukraine.6 In
June 2017 Russian cyber operators launched destructive
malware adapted from a series of widespread vulnerabilities common to unpatched Windows operating systems.
Because it exploited operating system vulnerabilities in
wide use across innumerable private- and public-sector
applications, the NotPetya attack quickly spread from
targeted Ukrainian banks, payment systems, and federal
agencies to power plants, hospitals, and other life-critical
systems worldwide. The attack even affected the Windowsbased radiation-monitoring systems in the Chernobyl
nuclear power plant.7 Global companies from Maersk—a
shipping and logistics firm—and FedEx’s European subsidiary to pharmaceutical companies found their systems
offline, with losses estimated as high as $10 billion. In
an ironic twist of fate, the reckless nature of the malware
allowed the infection to spread to Russia, where it hit
Rosneft, the leading Kremlin-linked oil and gas producer.8 NotPetya affected tens of thousands of individuals,
organizations, and businesses around the world. Yet most
Americans were completely unaware of the damage.
NotPetya, while far from the first cyberattack, exemplifies
the potential chaos that major cyberattacks can cause.
Like an infection in the bloodstream, the malware spread
along global supply chains.
From China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea to extremist
groups and criminals, a broad array of threat actors are
exploiting global connectivity to achieve their objectives.
These objectives range from undermining American economic and military power to suppressing political rivals to
stealing money and seeking illicit gain. Even if the United
States is not the intended target, the interconnected nature
of cyberspace may still render the nation a victim. Without

8

Major U.S. Public-Sector Cyber Threats
• Attacks on election processes and other democratic institutions designed to damage American
legitimacy and weaken the nation.
• Espionage efforts intended to undermine
both U.S. military capability and the Defense
Industrial Base.
• Targeting of civilian agencies for intelligence
collection and to obtain other advantages over
the United States.
• Loss of leadership in research and development
of key technologies.
Absent significant reform, adversaries will continue to
target U.S. elections and erode U.S. military advantages through cyber operations designed to steal sensitive
data, while U.S. technical leadership in research and
development will continue to decline.
a new strategy to secure cyberspace, a more connected
world will be a more vulnerable world.
Cyber operations offer adversaries—including non-state
actors—instruments of coercion, sabotage, espionage,
and extortion optimized for the 21st century.9 These new
tools take advantage of the terrain, exploiting the inherent
vulnerability of the digital networks on which the United
States and other countries rely.10 As more people and
devices connect to each other, the power and reach of cyber
operations grow. Great powers can pressure rivals without
committing military forces and declaring their intent—for
example, by holding their critical infrastructure at risk with
threats of blackouts and disruption.11 Regional powers
target critical commercial networks, from the financial
system to the global energy supply chain, to raise the
costs and risks associated with U.S. military operations.
Extremist groups rely on social networks for recruitment

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

Major U.S. Private-Sector Cyber Threats
• Cybercrime and ransomware that exploit
people, processes, and systems for individual
financial gain or to fund criminal enterprises.
• Intellectual property (IP) theft that hinders
long-term growth and prosperity and jeopardizes U.S. leadership in key technologies.
• Holding private-sector critical infrastructure
at risk to influence the decision making of
American leaders at times of conflict or heightened tension.
Absent significant reform, adversaries will continue
stealing hundreds of billions of dollars from businesses
and individuals, conducting widespread theft of U.S.
technologies, and accessing the electrical grid, water
treatment facilities, financial institutions, and other
critical infrastructure.
and radicalization. Criminals plunder individuals, companies, and even states by exploiting network vulnerabilities.
Unless there is a significant change in how the United
States and other free nations approach cybersecurity, these
trends will only get worse and jeopardize the connectivity
on which the world depends.
Our modern way of life depends on the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data. From medical records,
financial information, and our most personal communications to modern military operations, the individual and
the state rely on data. But as we increase our reliance on
data, our adversaries have developed new tools that hold
data and essential information systems at risk. The entire
system through which data flows into products, devices,
and services is vulnerable.
This threat is compounded by new technologies that
enable more sophisticated cyberattacks at greater scale
for lower cost, and by a host of capable adversaries who
have demonstrated a willingness and ability to adapt to
U.S. prevention and response measures. These adversaries

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

have moved beyond simple denial-of-service and website
defacement campaigns to conducting intelligence collection, ransomware attacks, and destructive operations,
as well as disruptive attacks on critical infrastructure.
Increasingly these attacks revolve around compromising
the technological systems used to collect, process, and
analyze data.

State Cyber Threats
Every state with a modern military possesses cyber capability. Great powers like China and Russia use cyber operations to enable their warfighting capabilities, advance their
interests short of armed conflict, and undermine American
economic strength, political will, and military might.12
China uses cyberspace to accelerate its economic rise,
undermine U.S. comparative strength, and suppress political opponents at home and abroad.13 Chinese advanced
persistent threat (APT) groups steal intellectual property
and sensitive national security information. Beijing wages
cyber-enabled economic warfare to fuel its rise while
simultaneously undercutting U.S. economic and military
superiority. Chinese cyber campaigns have enabled the
theft of trillions of dollars in intellectual property.14 At
the same time, Chinese APTs’ aggressive cyber-enabled
intelligence collection operations provide Chinese officials
with improved intelligence information to use against the
United States and its allies. Chinese operators constantly
scan U.S. government and private-sector networks to
identify vulnerabilities they can later exploit in a crisis.
Targeting America’s weapons and Defense Industrial Base
enables Beijing to undermine opponents from within: for
example, by threatening the U.S. Defense Industrial Base
or driving a wedge between America and its allies.15 Taken
to the extreme, China has the ability to launch cyberattacks
in the United States that could cause localized, temporary
disruptive effects on critical infrastructure—such as disruption of a natural gas pipeline—for days to weeks.16
Moreover, the Chinese Communist Party routinely
harasses foreign and domestic dissidents in cyberspace
while state-linked firms build a global mass-surveillance

9

THE CHALLENGE

capability connecting information and communications
equipment, surveillance cameras, facial recognition
software, and massive data sets of private citizens. China
is exporting these intrusive practices and technologies
abroad, fueling a trend toward digital authoritarianism that
threatens democracy at a global scale.17 Chinese national
companies like Huawei are part of an integrated strategy to
use predatory pricing to dominate and eventually monopolize key information and communications technology
supply chains. The goal is to drive non-Chinese alternatives
out of business, leaving the Chinese Communist Party and
its business allies with a stranglehold on the global supply
chain. As China exports this equipment, it becomes the
central hub of a new network of authoritarian states that
use mass surveillance and technologies of control, such
as social credit, to suppress fundamental human rights.
Unchecked, Chinese economic warfare, espionage, and
repression of civil liberties are likely to continue.
Without a new whole-of-nation strategy and significant
changes to how the United States defends its networks in
cyberspace, Chinese operations will continue to threaten
long-term American economic prosperity and national
security. Revelations of high-profile security failures of
information will undermine confidence in the U.S. government’s ability to protect its citizens and businesses. Along
with the loss in national power, trust in American institutions will wither. In the minds of regional allies, perceptions of unchallenged Chinese operations will reduce the
credibility of American security guarantees. Exfiltration of
private-sector intellectual property could compel investors
to question the viability of the U.S. economy as a hub of
technological innovation. Breaches could also yield intelligence coups that threaten the United States’ clandestine
personnel and advance Beijing’s diplomatic and economic
goals. Stolen U.S. military technology will enable the
production of capable facsimiles and support the design
of People’s Liberation Army weapon systems that exploit
newly identified vulnerabilities in U.S. counterparts.
Compromised supply chains could undermine American
military operations in future wars.18 China is seeking to
monopolize how people around the world interact, pay

10

Major Cyber Operations Publicly
Attributed to China: 2006–2019
• 2006–18: APT10 conducts a systematic
cyber espionage campaign stealing intellectual
property and compromising computer systems
containing personally identifiable information
on over 100,000 U.S. Navy personnel.19
• 2008: Operators exfiltrate terabytes of data
and schematics from the F-35 and F-22 stealth
fighter jet programs.20
• 2012: China compromises computers in a
new African Union headquarters it helped
build in Ethiopia with malware that exports
massive amounts of data nightly to servers in
Shanghai.21
• 2012: Chinese groups target oil and natural gas
pipelines in the United States.22
• 2013: IP Commission Report highlights Chinese
efforts at intellectual property theft efforts
linked to an estimated $300 billion in business
losses a year.23
• 2014: Cloud Hopper campaign attacks managed
service providers to access their client networks,
including those of leading international technology companies, and steal their clients’ intellectual
property.24
• 2014–15: The Office of Personnel Management
is breached, exposing sensitive information used
for security background checks on 21 million
federal employees.25
• 2017: Chinese military hackers breach the networks of Equifax, an American credit reporting
agency, stealing the personal information of
over 145 million Americans.26
• 2018: Hackers breach servers of Marriott
International, extracting information on 500
million guests.27
• 2019: Operators compromise iPhones in a
domestic spying campaign targeting Uighurs,
a Muslim minority in China.28

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

for goods, and relate to their governments. As Chinesebuilt networks and applications mediate interactions,
Beijing gains unprecedented power to surveil and
control the lives of individuals worldwide. Civil liberties and open markets will struggle to survive in this
new era of cyber repression. China presents a persistent
cyber espionage threat and a growing attack threat to
our core military and critical infrastructure systems.
China remains the most active strategic competitor
responsible for cyber espionage against the U.S.
government, corporations, and allies. It is improving
its cyberattack capabilities and altering information
online, shaping Chinese views and potentially the views
of U.S. citizens.29
Russia, a revanchist power, turns to cyber operations to
undermine U.S. and allied interests. A mix of spies and
criminal networks often masks Moscow’s role. Across
multiple operations, from elections to public referendums, the Kremlin has combined cyber intrusions and
propaganda to distort democratic processes, weaken trust
in institutions, and sow chaos in liberal democratic societies. Leading into the 2016 and 2018 elections, Russian
online trolls whipped into a digital frenzy the factions the
Federalist Papers cautioned against more than 230 years
ago. The resulting breakdown in political will and social
cohesion limits the ability of Western nations to check
Russia’s advances in states that formerly belonged to the
Soviet Union.30
During recent armed conflicts, Russia used cyber capabilities both to enhance military operations and to conduct
information operations campaigns designed to isolate
their opponents.31 In peacetime competition, Russian
operators signal the risk of escalation by probing critical
infrastructure across NATO member states.32 The openness, connectivity, and commitment to shared international norms of liberal democracies are a threat to Russia’s
interests.33 By subverting these ideas, exploiting cracks in
international alliance networks, and subtly encouraging
domestic instability, the Kremlin hopes to achieve its
strategic objectives without risking all-out war.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Major Cyber Operations Publicly
Attributed to Russia: 2007–2019
• 2007: Using distributed denial-of-service
attacks, Russian hackers target the websites
of Estonian government entities, banks, and
media properties in one of the first sophisticated and wide-scale cyberattacks in support of
strategic objectives.34
• 2008: During the Russo-Georgian War, a series
of cyberattacks disable and deface the websites
of Georgian government and private-sector
entities.35
• 2015: As war rages in eastern Ukraine, Russian
hackers cripple three Ukrainian energy
companies, disrupting power for millions of
customers.36
• 2016: During the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, Russian operatives use cyber operations
to collect on political parties and candidates
and conduct influence operations using social
media.37
• 2017: NotPetya attack spills out of Ukraine,
affecting businesses globally.38
• 2017: Russia-linked groups target nuclear
power plants in the United States, gaining access to business and administrative
networks.39
• 2017–18: Russia-linked groups target critical
infrastructure ranging from electricity to health
care systems, and compromise router traffic
globally.40

Left unchecked, Russian cyber operations will continue
to increase in sophistication and frequency. Moscow will
target democratic institutions, military assets, and critical
infrastructure in the United States and its liberal democratic allies, as well as the smaller neighbors Russia views
as modern-day tributary states (its near abroad). Russian
interference in U.S. elections in 2016 and 2018, as well
as in elections in Europe, was part of a longer, larger

11

THE CHALLENGE

campaign to undermine democracy and its institutions. It
was also an indicator of future operations that will target
voting systems and the broader information environment
in new and dangerous ways.41 A key priority of Russian
cyber operations will be to degrade the strategic cohesion
of Western alliance and security cooperation networks,
especially NATO.42 And if these structures decline, Russia’s
neighbors will be increasingly vulnerable to sophisticated
cyber and influence operations, resulting in a network of
central and eastern European states subservient to Moscow.
Unencumbered by international norms and empowered by
new technologies, the Kremlin will further refine its use of
cyber operations to advance its strategic objectives at the
expense of the United States and its allies and partners.
Regional powers increasingly exploit cyberspace to
advance revisionist interests. These cyber-enabled rogue
states are often more willing to accept risk and more
brazen than China and Russia, launching large-scale
cyberattacks against commercial firms and suppressing
dissidents. Lacking conventional tools sufficient to
achieve their political and economic objectives, these
states exploit their newfound cyber capabilities to steal
funds for illicit purposes, disrupt international commerce, and threaten their adversaries.
Iran uses cyber operations to undermine the U.S. deterrent posture and network of alliances in the Middle East.
In place of a nuclear deterrent, Tehran relies on the threat
of cyber intrusions, proxy groups, terrorists, and ballistic missiles to hold other states at risk.43 Iranian cyber
operations focus on the commercial networks of energy
and finance entities of particular importance to the
global economy. They leverage the inherent difficulties of
coordinating cyber defenses between public and private
partnerships and sovereign states. Unless it faces a more
robust deterrent, Iran will continue to view cyber operations as a low-cost means of ensuring regime survival and
achieving regional goals.
Like other autocratic states, Iran is becoming a digital
authoritarian. Groups linked to the Iranian regime turn

12

Major Cyber Operations Publicly
Attributed to Iran: 2011–2019
• 2011–13: Iran targets 46 U.S. financial
institutions and companies and a dam in Rye,
New York, with distributed denial-of-service
attacks.44
• 2012: Iran conducts destructive attacks against
the Saudi Arabian state-owned oil firm, Saudi
Aramco, with the Shamoon malware, which
result in 30,000 computers being taken offline
and rendered unusable.45
• 2013: Through computer intrusions Iranianbased Mabna Institute actors commit wire
fraud, unauthorized access of a computer, and
aggravated identity theft, stealing more than
30 terabytes of academic data and intellectual
property valued at $3.4 billion.46
• 2014: Iranian hackers attack the Sands Casino,
infecting multiple systems and wiping hard
drives.47
• 2017: Iran launches Shamoon 2, affecting 15
government agencies and organizations in Saudi
Arabia.48
• 2018: Shamoon 2 hits an Italian oil services
company, taking hundreds of servers and
computers offline.49
• 2019: APT39, an Iranian-linked group, is implicated in a widespread cyber espionage campaign
targeting the personal information of citizens in
the United States and Middle East and striving
to establish a foothold, escalate privileges, and
conduct reconnaissance in support of future
operations.50

to cyberspace to suppress dissidents and undermine democratic institutions around the world. These operations
harass activists at home and abroad.51 Like Russia, Iran
even extends its cyber-enabled political warfare campaign
to the free media and electoral institutions. Iranian

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

groups have been caught using fake social media accounts
to spread disinformation52 and attempting to hack the
2020 U.S. presidential campaigns.53
North Korea views cyber operations as a tool of coercion
and source of illicit financing via cyber criminal activities. North Korean front companies operating abroad
provide opportunities for North Korea to expand the
scope and reach of its operations, despite the limited
connectivity at home.54 From these safe havens, North
Korean cyber operators probe the networks of the
United States and its allies, seeking to steal military
plans, technology, and weapon system information
while identifying vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure
for Pyongyang to exploit in a future crisis.55 When dissidents or foreign companies oppose the regime, North
Korean operators retaliate online.56

Major Cyber Operations Publicly Attributed
to North Korea: 2014–2019
• 2014: North Korea conducts destructive
attack against U.S.-based Sony Pictures
Entertainment.57
• 2015: North Korean–linked groups use 5,986
phishing emails containing malicious code to
gain access to noncritical systems at a South
Korean nuclear power plant.58
• 2016: North Korean groups are linked to
an estimated $81 million cyber heist of
Bangladesh’s central bank account at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.59
• 2017: North Korea launches the WannaCry
ransomware attack that infects over 300,000
computers in 150 countries; its effects include
temporarily knocking some U.K. hospitals
offline.60
• 2019: A UN report concludes that North Korea
used cyberattacks against financial institutions
and cryptocurrency exchanges to steal an
estimated $2 billion it used to fund its weapons
of mass destruction program.61

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

The regime extracts illicit gains from the modern global
economy by conducting attacks against systems critical
to financial institutions’ wire transfers.62 These operations
give North Korean leadership a funding lifeline in the face
of otherwise crippling economic sanctions.63 Left unchallenged, North Korea will only grow bolder, complicating
diplomatic efforts to check its nuclear ambitions.
Without a new U.S. strategic approach, revisionist
regional powers will seek new opportunities to use
increasingly powerful yet inexpensive cyber operations
to undermine U.S. economic, diplomatic, and military
power. They will challenge the U.S.-led system of alliances designed to limit major wars and use the resulting
chaos to ensure the safety of corrupt elites.

Non-state Cyber Threats
Though we are in an era of great power competition, one
need not be a great power to have a great impact in the
cyber domain. Cyber capabilities, unlike nuclear capabilities, can be built or obtained without access to national
resources and power. From extremist groups to criminals
and illicit businesses, new threat actors take advantage of
modern connectivity to undermine the integrity of open
societies. Sophisticated criminal enterprise and cybercrime
groups now target some of the world’s largest businesses
and municipalities, stealing money and encrypting critical
data for ransom.64 Internet-enabled social connectivity
provides extremist groups new ways of conducting targeted
recruitment unimaginable just a generation ago. The
so-called Islamic State is an omen of 21st-century terror
movements. The group has demonstrated a sophisticated
understanding of how mobile applications, web content,
and online forums can be used to support operations.65
The growing demand for cyber capabilities to spy on and
coerce rivals has created entirely new types of businesses
and marketplaces for state and non-state actors.66 Former
cyber operators from multiple countries can sell their skills
to the highest bidder.67 Left unchecked, these actors could
turn the connectivity our world relies on into a chaotic,
fragmented space where states, businesses, and individuals
lose trust and confidence in formal institutions.

13

THE CHALLENGE

Major Cyber Operations Publicly Attributed
to Non-state Actors: 2011–2019
• 2011–present: Cybercrime group Evil Corp
uses Dridex malware to infect computers and
harvest credentials from banks and financial
institutions in over 40 countries, causing more
than $100 million in theft.68
• 2011: The GameOver Zeus malware, created by the Russian cybercriminal Evgeniy
Mikhailovich Bogachev, infects more than 1
million devices worldwide and causes damages
in excess of $100 million.69
• 2013: Cryptolocker ransomware infects more
than 234,000 computers and actors obtain
more than $27 million in ransom payments.70
• 2014: Four hackers breach the servers of
JPMorgan Chase, compromising the data of
76 million households and 7 million small
businesses in one of the biggest data breaches in
history.71
• 2015: Members of the Islamist hacker group the
Cyber Caliphate gain control of U.S. Central
Command’s Twitter and YouTube accounts and
post numerous propaganda videos.72
• 2015: GozNym malware is used by a transnational organized cybercrime network to steal
an estimated $100 million from unsuspecting
victims in the United States and around the
world.73
• 2016: Self-declared affiliates of the groups
Anonymous and New World Hackers disrupt
internet service across North America using
a botnet composed of numerous Internet of
Things (IoT) devices.74
• 2018: After a sophisticated ransomware attack
shut down several critical municipal websites,
the city of Atlanta declines to pay a $52,000
ransom demanded by hackers, instead opting to
spend $2.6 million to rebuild its systems.75
• 2019: More than 20 Texas towns and the city
of Baltimore are hit with ransomware attacks,
disrupting critical municipal services.76

14

Increasingly, cybercriminals are migrating toward the
“crime-as-a-service” model in which threat groups
purchase and exchange malicious code on the dark web.77
Businesses across the globe could lose $5.2 trillion to
these criminal enterprises by 2024.78 In addition, criminals can use cyber operations to target state and local
government through ransomware attacks. Many of these
thefts are masked through techniques that make attribution and prosecution difficult.
Criminal groups are expanding their cyber operations.
Ransomware attacks are on the rise and increasing in
sophistication. In 2019, ransomware incidents grew over
300 percent compared to 2018.79 The onslaught was so
severe that the Federal Bureau of Investigation released a
public service announcement warning of the risks of targeted attacks against “health care organizations, industrial
companies, and the transportation sector.”80 These attacks
target not just businesses and individuals, but increasingly
American cities. In 2019 ransomware attacks hit more
than 40 municipalities across the United States.81

WHERE ARE WE NOW?
The United States is struggling to address the changing
character of cyber threats. The government still lacks clear,
coordinated response mechanisms that build security into
the cyber ecosystem and deter attacks of significant consequence. The public and private sectors struggle to coordinate cyber defenses, leaving gaps that decrease national
resilience and create systemic risk. New technology continues to emerge that further compounds these challenges.
Unclear Strategy
The United States lacks a clear, comprehensive, publicly
declared doctrine that incorporates all of the instruments
of power to address less-than-catastrophic attacks on
public and private networks in cyberspace. Despite
U.S. progress in shifting to a more aggressive posture in
cyberspace, adversarial states and non-state actors find
cyber operations ideal low-cost, high-payoff methods
for eroding U.S. power that do not risk direct counterattacks. To date, the United States has not sufficiently
changed the cost-benefit calculus made by adversaries

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

Issues Americans Perceive as a Major Threat

Percent

bureaucracy and a labyrinth
of outdated rules, laws,
80
and regulations that limit
America’s ability to defend
74%
70
cyberspace. While the U.S.
60
62%
government has taken a
59%
58%
more proactive role over the
50
50
%
48%
past four years and started
44%
40
to use multiple instruments
of power to respond to
30
threats, these responses still
20
fall short. Technological
change is outpacing the
10
U.S. government’s ability
0
to adapt. Innumerable
China’s
Condition
Cyber
Global
ISIS
North
Russia’s
power and
of the
attacks
climate
Korea’s
power
barriers to private- and
influence
global
from other
change
nuclear
and
economy
countries
program
influence
public-sector collaboration
compound the problem.
“______ is a major threat to our country”
With each new innovation,
Source: Pew Research Center, Spring 2018 Global Attitudes Survey
the legacy structures and
approaches amended by the
federal government to govern cyberspace become less and
when determining whether or not to attack in cyberspace
less relevant to the growing range of activities that take
below the level of armed conflict.
place there.
Just as cost-benefit analysis highlights the ease of cyber
This growing irrelevance is partly a result of the character
operations, the balance of risk is similarly skewed.
of innovation and of cyberspace technologies. In previous
Adversaries suspect that the U.S. government would retaleras, the federal government was a significant driver of
iate for turning off the power in a major city but doubt
technological advancement—including the developAmerican resolve to respond to intellectual property theft,
ment of the internet—through its national laboratories,
the implanting of malware in critical infrastructure, and
funding of scientific research, and defense-driven research
election interference. They know they can achieve their
initiatives.82 Over time, as technological innovation began
objectives on the cheap. Both state and non-state actors
to overtake manufacturing and resource extraction as
know that in the current environment, new vulnerabilities
the primary means of generating corporate advantage,
that they can exploit emerge every day across the private
the private sector began to outspend the government in
sector while government and private-sector responses will
cutting-edge research.
be uncoordinated and sporadic at best.

Poorly Positioned to Lead
The U.S. government is currently poorly positioned
to act with the speed and agility required to secure its
interests in cyberspace. The nation that brought the digital era into being is weighed down by an industrial-era

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

As the U.S. government sought to manage how technology shaped society, it developed a wide range of
programs. From congressional oversight bodies to new
departments, the government expanded. Many of these
new efforts have had significant impact (e.g., U.S.

15

THE CHALLENGE

Cyber Command, the National Cyber Investigative
Joint Task Force, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency), but the overall federal effort has failed
to comprehensively address the inherent vulnerabilities
associated with increased connectivity. There is still not
a clear unity of effort or theory of victory driving the
federal government’s approach to protecting and securing
cyberspace.
To make matters worse, the U.S. government lacks the
number of cyber professionals needed to secure its own
networks, much less support private-sector partners or
treaty allies, who also operate cyber systems that the U.S.
government relies on. There are over 33,000 unfilled
cybersecurity positions in the U.S. government and
500,000 unfilled positions throughout the United States.83
Moreover, a 2015 survey of information technology
executives from the United States, United Kingdom, Israel,
Germany, France, Japan, Australia, and Mexico found that
76 percent of respondents believed that their governments
are not investing enough money in cybersecurity talent.84
The military services are adapting to recruit and train their

own cyber warriors, but they anticipate difficulties recruiting and retaining sufficient top-flight talent.85

Uncoordinated Public and Private Sectors
Because the majority of the critical infrastructure, hardware,
and software that powers the information age resides in
the private sector, there is a unique requirement to build a
public-private partnership to protect the nation. However,
businesses are often reluctant to let governments onto
private, commercial networks without a clear understanding of their shared interests and responsibilities. Afraid of
creating moral hazard, the federal government invests little
in protecting the cybersecurity of commercial infrastructure
or key systems controlled by states and local municipalities.
This lack of accountability for managing risk leads to
blind spots. Who is responsible for setting priorities (and
providing funding) when it is necessary to “turn the lights
back on” following a major cyberattack? Who coordinates
continuity of the economy during a series of large-scale
attacks on American financial institutions and transportation infrastructure? How do local hospitals, water

How Can Artificial intelligence and Machine Learning Affect Cybersecurity?
Advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) are creating both opportunities and challenges in cyberspace.
On the one hand, these technologies can increase cybersecurity. For example, the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA) tested AI/ML capabilities during its 2016 Cyber Grand Challenge pitting teams of supercomputers hunting
vulnerabilities against one another.86 Competitors relied on supercomputers to write self-healing code to rapidly search for
flaws and write corrections in real time. Each supercomputer sought to protect itself while searching for and exploiting gaps in
the other competitors. The competition illustrated that an AI/ML-enabled cyber defense was able to detect, and even repair,
vulnerabilities significantly more quickly than humans alone ever could.
On the other hand, AI/ML risks creating a new arms race. China is aggressively investing in AI/ML applications with military,
domestic surveillance, and economic implications.87 Other countries, such as Russia, and even violent extremist organizations
are exploring how to adapt free and widely available AI/ML algorithms to attack U.S. interests.88
As a result, the United States must ensure that its research and development investments in AI/ML and other possible
breakthrough technologies match those technologies’ potential consequences for national security. The National Security
Commission on Artificial Intelligence is doing critical research to inform this competition, but this much is already clear: in the
future cyberspace environment, the advantage will not necessarily go to the most powerful among nations, but to the actors
that field the best algorithms or technologies.

16

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

treatment facilities, and municipal offices ask the federal
government for assistance during a sustained ransomware
campaign? Who is responsible for establishing the minimum-security standards, providing vulnerability assessments, and proactively managing the funding processes
required to prepare for and prevent major cyber incidents? How can the public and private sectors collaborate
to create a joined picture of the threat landscape?
As a result, everyone is left to independently balance risk,
make investments, and take ad hoc responsibility for
increasingly vulnerable networks, thereby producing dangerous security gaps. Public- and private-sector responses
are left uncoordinated and the nation’s critical infrastructure is left unprotected and vulnerable to adversaries who
can, and will, exploit this opportunity.

WHERE ARE WE HEADED?
Two trends are fundamentally reshaping cyberspace:
(1) increasing connectivity and (2) new technology that
helps users make sense of—and derive value from—vast
quantities of data. These trends can be harnessed with equal
ease by state and non-state actors.
The speed and accessibility of digital connectivity only
continue to improve. When the first smartphone was
released, mobile internet speeds barely supported the
transmission of images. Today, high-definition video
streaming, real-time GPS tracking, and wirelessly
accessible cloud computing have launched new economic
sectors. Fifth-generation (5G) mobile networking is
poised to further advance this trend toward faster and
more reliable telecommunications. Satellite-based mesh
communications networks—with nodes connected
directly to each other rather than through a hierarchy—
will bring the internet to every point on the globe.
Together, these advancements will enable the massive
deployment of smart sensors—an Internet of Things—
that autonomously gather, analyze, and act on data
underpinning almost every facet of human life. Advanced
approaches to connectivity promise global internet

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

coverage free of constraints imposed by traditional geography, infrastructure, or even governments.
Driven by miniaturization and 5G networks, the
so-called Internet of Things will create new networks of
communication, data collection, and autonomous action
connecting medical devices, streetlights, cars, sensors,
and even common household appliances. These devices
will allow the internet of our future access to new sources
of vast amounts of information, from the personal (e.g.,
our sleeping habits, dietary patterns, or exercise routines)
to the logistic (e.g., micropatterns in traffic or granular
weather information). As the private lives of citizens
become further enmeshed within networks, new vulnerabilities will be created.
Authoritarian states will take advantage of preferred
relationships with technology firms to build in backdoors
for government access that allow them to surveil the
private lives of citizens and political opponents at home
and abroad. In addition to advertising, propaganda will
be micro-targeted and tailored to an individual based on
personal data and search history. As networks connect
individuals to transportation and electrical grids, public
works, telecommunications, and the financial system,
new vulnerabilities will become available for adversaries
to exploit. Botnets could hijack billions of devices to
disrupt entire regions, creating new national security
challenges.
A connected world is also prone to cyber weapons spilling
into the wild. Such spillage, associated with both great
power competition and a black market for malware,
creates new risk vectors. As states spy on each other, they
release malware into the wild that can be repurposed to
attack commercial interests, support authoritarian domestic spying campaigns, and compromise individual privacy.
Research and development by non-state cyber weapon
developers accelerate this trend, adding new vulnerabilities. While it might be difficult to buy sophisticated
kinetic weapons on the black market, for both states and
criminal groups it is easy to buy malware to support

17

THE CHALLENGE

Are We Losing the International Standards Race?
At its inception, advocates proclaimed that cyberspace was a force for good, inherently promoting freedom and democracy.
They heralded the growing presence in China of the internet—a free and open medium invented and dominated by American
entities—as proof that political and economic liberalization would be just around the corner.89 Today, technical and international initiatives by countries like China and Russia have made it clear that digital connectivity—and the power it affords
to selectively target, amplify, or isolate audiences ranging in size from one to billions—is a tool, like any other, that can be
wielded for good or bad.
Because the networks that connect us all in cyberspace eclipse nation-state geographical boundaries and sovereignty, they
create unique challenges for governance. No single nation-state can standardize cyberspace. As a result, standards are
developed by decentralized international bodies primarily driven by academia and the private sector. Even when such bodies
include nation-state representation, like the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), the United States tends to encourage a bottom-up, private-sector-driven process, while China and Russia send full diplomatic delegations and take a more
active role in these bodies.90
This dynamic is at play in the rollout of 5G networks. In 2013, the Chinese government committed resources and attention
across three ministries to actively coordinate with industry on early 5G development standards.91 This effort was combined
with state support of companies like Huawei to speed research and development toward early patents, which can often
inform the foundations of subsequent technical standards. As a result, by early 2019, Huawei led the world with 1,529 of these
“standards-essential patents” for 5G technology.92 In addition, China has invested in international standards-making bodies,
frequently sending large delegations to working meetings and paying bonuses to their representatives who secure leadership
positions.93
As Chinese technologies increasingly inform international technical standards, so do the values and policies accompanying
Beijing’s vision for the use of those technologies. China is exporting these technologies around the world, particularly to Africa
and Southeast Asia, where too often invasive surveillance regimes and repressive censorship laws soon follow.94 As China
helps design and deploy the foundational infrastructure over which the world’s data flows, it is ensuring that the same level
of authoritarian control is available to those governments that wish to purchase it. While the United States and its partners
champion a nascent framework for “secure-by-design” standards, including mandatory cybersecurity measures and open,
auditable, and interoperable telecommunications equipment, China is writing a digital future of proprietary technologies in
which “surveillance by design” can too easily become the default.
The global standards governing the connectivity of cyberspace and its enabling technologies are too important to be left
to authoritarian nation-states that do not value open, free expression or democratic institutions. For the internet to fulfill its
original promise, the United States and its network of democratic allies must engage with standards-making bodies and have
well-researched agendas informed by a clear-eyed understanding of both technological and geopolitical trends. While the
original vision for the internet and digital connectivity is an attractive one, the U.S. government is now only one of many actors
defining the rules for cyberspace. The United States must collaborate with its partners—both government and private-sector
entities—to ensure that our most critical technologies are designed using standards that align with American values.

18

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

THE CHALLENGE

brazen cyberattacks. Because cyber weapons are not in the
exclusive control of nation-states, traditional arms control
methods are difficult to coordinate, much less enforce.

AN INFLECTION POINT
The United States thus stands at a strategic inflection
point. While America looks forward to the potential of
cyberspace and associated technologies to improve the
quality of human life, threats continue to grow at an
accelerating pace. America is facing adversary nationstates, extremists, and criminals that are leveraging
emerging technologies to an unprecedented degree.
Authoritarian states seek to control every aspect of life
in their societies and export this style of government,
in which surveillance trumps liberty, to the rest of the
world. There is no public square, only black boxes proliferating propaganda and organizing economic activity to
benefit the few at the expense of the many. Rogue states,
extremists, and criminals thrive on the dark web, taking
advantage of insecure network connections and a market
for malware to prey on victims.
In a world where the United States fails to check the
spread of surveillance technologies beloved by dictators and fails to champion a new strategy to secure the
connectivity on which societies around the world rely,
democracy withers. Chinese technology exports could
help Beijing censor topics that it, or despot clients,
deems taboo, and the free world would have no way of
knowing the facts. The security of global networks would
be corrupted from the inside out, handing the Chinese
Communist Party compromising personal information
on people around the world. At the same time, China,
Russia, Iran, and North Korea will use cyber operations
to interfere with elections in free countries, bringing
the legitimacy of the democratic process into question.
These nations, along with extremist groups, will further
weaponize social media, distorting public discourse and
deepening polarization in societies around the world. The
world is on the brink of a second information revolution.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

If democracies do not devise a new strategy to provide
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information
in cyberspace, they are unlikely to be the leading beneficiaries or guarantors of this new, connected world.
Technological trends are creating markets and practices
that challenge the U.S. government’s ability to provide
the stability required for freedom and prosperity to
flourish. Today, the private sector is the hub for technological innovation, with the government at times
struggling to import that innovation back into its own
systems and processes.95 This shift is further magnified
by private-sector ownership of most of the physical
and logical layers of cyberspace.96 The result is an
unprecedented reversal of dependencies: while the U.S.
government has traditionally provided for the collective
defense, it now requires enhanced cooperation and
partnership with the private sector.
Across American history, the Republic has weathered
large-scale change and strategic inflections by forging new
strategies and partnerships. Democracies adapt, powered
by open debate and an ability to build bridges between
the public and private sectors that take advantage of new
opportunities and mitigate emergent risks. The opportunities and vulnerabilities associated with growing connectivity and the reach of cyberspace into all of our lives
is no different. The United States needs a new strategic
posture to defend its interest in cyberspace. Because
the domain relies disproportionately on private-sector
networks, this strategy must incentivize public- and private-sector collaboration and deny adversaries the ability
to hold America hostage in cyberspace. This strategy
must combine non-military instruments of power with
defensive mechanisms to secure critical infrastructure—
backed by a credible capability and capacity to impose
costs through cyber and non-cyber military operations at
time and place of the nation’s choosing—both to shape
competition beneath the level of armed conflict and to
win in armed conflict.

19

HISTORICAL LEGACY AND
METHODOLOGY
HISTORICAL LEGACY
The Cyberspace Solarium Commission draws its inspiration from President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s 1953
Project Solarium.97 With the Soviet Union looming as an
existential threat, Eisenhower tasked his national security
team with designing a long-term competitive strategy
that would outlast his presidency.98 Project Solarium
pitted three teams, each developing a different strategic
framework, against each other over the course of six
weeks working at the National War College and a daylong debate at the White House. Their work eventually
culminated in NSC 162/2—Eisenhower’s “New Look”
grand strategy—a sustainable variant of containment that
laid the foundation for success against the Soviet Union.99
This whole-of-nation strategy called upon the talents of
citizens, corporations, academia, and government alike.100
The United States’ extended competition with the Soviet
Union would yield, among other things, arguably the
most consequential technological innovation of the
postwar period: the internet.101
Similar to the original Solarium effort, the world is
now living through a period of strategic adjustment.
The United States is struggling to defend its interests
in cyberspace and leverage its comparative advantages:
technological prowess, an innovative workforce, an open
society, and a free market. For the past 25 years, each
presidential administration has reached out to academics, business leaders, and innovators to develop new
ideas to solve this problem but has consistently fallen
short. There are enduring challenges at the heart of
securing American interests in cyberspace. In the early
1960s, computer scientists and national security experts
began to identify the inherent vulnerabilities and threats
associated with the increasing connectivity afforded by
computers. At the RAND Corporation, Willis Ware
began to conceptualize a gathering threat unique to
emerging computer networks.102 While his colleague

20

Paul Baran argued that the decentralization of computer
systems would reduce the risk of destruction or disruption, Ware worried that decentralization would also
increase the risk of error and intrusion.103 Recognizing
that the advance of computer networking—particularly
in service of national security—was unstoppable, Ware
set about creating a theory of security in the cyber
domain. In 1970, working at the behest of the Defense
Science Board, Ware published “Security Controls for
Computer Systems,” later known as the “Ware Report.”
This analysis took a holistic view of network security,
arguing that information must be secured through a
comprehensive set of “hardware, software, communication, physical, personnel, and administrative-procedural
safeguards.”104 Many of the vulnerabilities foreseen by
the Ware Report—including user and administrator
errors, insider subversion, weak authentication, and
persistent threats—remain fundamental concerns in
cybersecurity 50 years later.
The concept of cybersecurity (if not yet the word itself )
entered American pop culture in 1983 with the release
of the film WarGames, a production on which Ware
consulted.105 The buzz surrounding the film, which features a teenager hacking into national defense systems
and nearly causing a nuclear exchange with the Soviet
Union, caught the attention of the Reagan administration. After a private viewing of the film at Camp David,
President Ronald Reagan tasked his national security
team with determining the real-world plausibility of
such an incident.106 In 1984, President Reagan signed
National Security Decision Directive 145, “National
Policy on Telecommunications and Automated
Information Systems Security.”107 NSDD-145 would be
the first in a long line of presidential directives, congressional bills, commissions, and national strategies all
aimed at protecting the United States from the hazards
of its revolutionary creation.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

HISTORICAL LEGACY AND METHODOLOGY

There have been some successes in organizing the nation
for resilience. Since 1997, the U.S. government has established numerous cybersecurity and critical infrastructure
commissions that have each released noteworthy plans
for improvement,108 and the federal government has also
stood up new organizations to coordinate policies and
operations in cyberspace such as the National Cyber
Investigative Joint Task Force in 2008, U.S. Cyber
Command in 2009, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency in 2018, and the National Security
Agency’s new Cybersecurity Directorate, created in
2019.109 Cyberspace commissions, reports, and directives
have helped shape laws such as the 1986 Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act, the 1999 Financial Services
Modernization Act, the 2002 Federal Information
Security Management Act, and the 2015 Cybersecurity
Information Sharing Act.110
Yet despite these efforts, new threats and vulnerabilities
appear daily for many of the same reasons highlighted
by the Ware Report. This phenomenon has not been
lost on previous reports and commissions. In 1996, the
Defense Science Board’s Information Warfare-Defense
report noted with apparent frustration that it was “the
third consecutive year a DSB Summer Study or Task
Force [had] made similar recommendations.” The 2009
Cyberspace Policy Review echoed many of the same
recommendations offered by similar strategic reviews in
the 1990s and in 2003.111 There are many more examples
of such efforts from the past 50 years that produced
overwhelming expert consensus but limited policy action.
This effort seeks to avoid this fate by developing both a
coherent strategy for securing cyberspace and concrete
policy recommendations the executive branch and
Congress can act on without delay.

METHODOLOGY
The Cyberspace Solarium Commission used a multimethod approach combining interviews with
subject matter experts, red teaming, stress tests,
and quantitative analysis to develop a strategy for
defending American interests. Like the original

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Solarium event—which used strategic concepts such
as containment, rollback, and massive retaliation to
calibrate a strategic approach to competing with the
Soviet Union—the Cyberspace Solarium Commission
adapted strategic approaches optimized for the complex
connectivity of cyberspace and assigned them to its
three Task Forces. Each Task Force used one of these
approaches—active disruption and cost imposition,
denial and defense, and entanglement through normsbased regimes that encourage responsible behavior in
cyberspace112—to articulate key lines of effort, or pillars,
paired with key recommendations.
First, each Task Force conducted independent research.
This research focused on interviewing subject matter
experts from government, academia, and industry in
more than 300 sessions over five months, as well as
conducting a literature review. These sessions enabled
the Task Forces to build a collaborative research network
to test emerging ideas and existing approaches to securing cyberspace. Attendees at these meetings included
full-time staff, part-time subject matter experts, and
Commissioners themselves.

Task Force Engagements
• 200+ meetings with industry experts
• 25+ meetings with academics
• 50+ meetings with federal, state, and local
officials
• 10+ seminars/roundtables hosted by think tanks
• 20+ meetings with officials from international
organizations/foreign countries
The research phase produced independent task force
reports outlining alternative strategies and policy
approaches for securing America’s vital networks in cyberspace. Each Task Force had a different theory of victory,
independently describing the core challenge to securing
cyberspace and how best to apply instruments of national
power to defend American interests.

21

Second, the Task Forces
turned to a series of red
teams to assess their strategies. As external, independent groups, the red teams
challenged the theories of
victory and key recommendations, providing both
verbal and written feedback
to each Task Force. This
feedback was then used by
the teams to fine-tune each
approach and supporting
recommendations.
Third, the Commission
stress-tested each Task
Force strategic approach.
As was done during the
original Eisenhower
Solarium project, an
Senator Angus King asks a question at the Commission’s Solarium event, hosted by
event was held at Fort
the National Defense University on October 25, 2019, while fellow Commissioners
McNair in partnership
Representative Mike Gallagher and FBI Director Christopher Wray look on.
with the National Defense
University.113 Unlike the
original Solarium event,
Fourth, following the Solarium event, the Commissioners
the 2019 forum adapted key concepts from stress tests
assessed each strategy and its supporting policy recomand red team techniques to help the Commissioners
mendations, providing formal feedback. The staff tabuevaluate the inherent strengths and weaknesses of
lated this feedback and used the insights and guidance
each approach. The stress tests used complex scenarios
gained to further refine the recommendations.
involving the widespread use of cyber operations against
a hypothetical country and its allies.114 These attacks
targeted a complex mix of political institutions, military
forces, the Defense Industrial Base, and economic targets
ranging from financial institutions to critical infrastructure. During the Solarium event, each Task Force
responded to questions from Commissioners and red
team members on how their strategy would address the
crises outlined in the scenarios.

22

Unlike the original Solarium, this was not a top-secret
process driven by the President. Instead, it was an open
process created by Congress in collaboration with the
executive branch. This process enabled the Commission
to evaluate competing perspectives and recommend a
strategy that defines the core objectives and priorities
required to secure American interests in cyberspace.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

(U.S. Cyberspace Solarium Commission)

HISTORICAL LEGACY AND METHODOLOGY

STRATEGIC APPROACH:
LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

nts

me
tru

Ins

Private
Sector

All

etw
Pa
rtn

te

er
N

Government

ra
eg

ork

Whole-of-Nation Framework
Int

Citizens

er

w
Po
of

First, the approach combines traditional methods of
altering the cost-benefit calculus of adversaries (e.g.,
denial and cost imposition) with forms of influence optimized for a connected era, such as promoting norms that
encourage restraint and incentivize responsible behavior
in cyberspace. Strategic discussions all too often prioritize
narrow definitions of deterrence that fail to consider
how technology is changing society. In a connected
world, those states that harness the power of cooperative,
networked relationships gain a position of advantage and
inherent leverage.116 The more connected a state is to

Second, layered cyber deterrence emphasizes working
with the private sector to efficiently coordinate how
the nation responds with speed and agility to emerging
threats. The federal government alone cannot fund or
solve the challenge of adversaries attacking the networks
on which America and its allies and partners rely. It
requires collaboration with state and local authorities,
leading business sectors, and international partners, all
within the rule of law established by the Constitution
that protects the rights of individuals. This strategy also
contemplates the planning needed to ensure the continuity of the economy and the ability of the United States to

al

In this dilemma reside the seeds of a new strategy:
layered cyber deterrence. Layered cyber deterrence combines a number of traditional deterrence mechanisms
and extends them beyond the government to develop
a whole-of-nation approach. Since America relies on
critical infrastructure that is primarily owned and
operated by the private sector, the government cannot
defend the nation alone. The public and private sectors,
along with key international partners, must collaborate to
build national resilience and reshape the cyber ecosystem
in a manner that increases its security, while imposing
costs against malicious actors and preventing attacks of
significant consequence.

others and the more resilient its infrastructure, the more
powerful it becomes. This power requires secure connections and stable expectations between leading states about
what is and is not acceptable behavior in cyberspace. It
requires shaping adversary behavior not just by threatening costs but also by changing the ecosystem in which
competition occurs. It requires international engagement
and collaborating with the private sector.

ern
ati
on

ince 1960, pockets of scientists, military officers,
academics, technology innovators, and government
officials have all wrestled with a dilemma: as connectivity
expands, it creates both increasing opportunities and
greater vulnerabilities. Every new device connected, and
line of code added, presents adversaries with new attack
surfaces they can use to undermine American security
and prosperity. These devices and applications, as well as
the communications infrastructure on which they rely,
are overwhelmingly controlled by the private sector.115 To
defend cyberspace thus requires significant coordination
across the public and private sectors.

Int

S

Whole-of-Nation Framework
Cyberspace Solarium Commission

23

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

rebound in the aftermath of a major, nationwide cyberattack of significant consequence. Such planning adds
depth to deterrence by assuring the American people,
allies, and even our adversaries that the United States will
have both the will and capability to respond to an attack
on its interests, no matter how devastating.
Third, the strategy builds on the defend forward concept,
originally articulated in the Department of Defense
(DoD) Cyber Strategy, to include all of the instruments
of national power. It integrates defend forward into a
whole-of-nation approach for securing American interests
in cyberspace. Defend forward is a proactive, rather than
reactive, approach to adversary cyber threats. Specifically,
it addresses the fact that the United States has not created
credible and sufficient costs against malicious adversary
behavior below the level of armed attack—even as the
United States has prevented cyberattacks of significant
consequences.117 Therefore, defend forward posits that
the United States must shift from responding to malicious behavior after it has already occurred to proactively
observing, pursuing, and countering adversary operations
and imposing costs to change adversary behavior. By
shaping the strategic environment and creating meaningful costs for malicious behavior, defend forward aims
to disrupt and defeat ongoing malicious adversary cyber
campaigns, deter future campaigns, and reinforce favorable international norms of behavior. This posture implies
persistent engagement118 with adversaries as part of an
overall integrated effort to apply every authority, access,
and capability possible (e.g., laws, financial regulation,
diplomacy, education) to the defense of cyberspace in a
manner consistent with international law.
Layered cyber deterrence combines different ways to
shape adversaries’ decision making. The central idea is
simple: increase the costs and decrease the benefits that
adversaries anticipate when planning cyberattacks
against American interests. This can be achieved by
employing multiple deterrent mechanisms concurrently,
continuously, and collaboratively across the public and
private sectors. If deterrence fails, the United States

24

retains a multitude of options that comply with international law.
In the first layer, the United States together with our
partners and allies collectively develops and implements
cyber norms based on our shared interests and values.
These norms have the potential to shape behavior, largely
by encouraging restraint and incentivizing responsible
behavior. Actions in this layer include, but are not
limited to, diplomacy, law enforcement cooperation, and
intelligence sharing on emerging and persistent threat
vectors and vulnerabilities. Over time, growing coalitions
of like-minded partners and allies can limit the number
of targets that adversaries can attack through capacity
building and can increase the costs of malign behavior
through collective action. This approach will not eliminate state-sponsored cyber operations or cybercrime,
but consistently enforced consequences and rewards can
begin to erode the incentives for bad behavior.
In the second layer, the U.S. government collaborates
with the private sector to reduce vulnerabilities and
deny benefits to adversaries. The strategy for this layer of
deterrence is to force adversaries to make difficult choices
regarding resources, access, and capabilities. When U.S.
vulnerabilities are reduced and adversaries are forced to
expend more resources, burn sensitive accesses, or utilize
unique and expensive cyber weapons to achieve their
desired results, cyberattacks will be reduced. Actions
in this layer include, but are not limited to, expanding
operational collaboration between government and
private sector, prioritizing support to systemically important critical infrastructure, exercising local authorities
and the private sector’s ability to respond to significant
cyberattacks through such mechanisms as Continuity
of the Economy (COTE) planning, pooling public and
private data on cyber intrusions, incentivizing companies and individuals to reduce systemic vulnerabilities,
and ensuring that the intelligence resources of the U.S.
government are effectively brought to bear in supporting
the private sector’s own cybersecurity efforts.119 Over
time, these activities make it harder for adversaries to find

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

easy attack vectors and hold at risk American networks in
cyberspace. The U.S. government must find ways to collaborate with private-sector vendors and state as well as
local governments to use red teams to anticipate possible
cyberattacks against critical infrastructure. In the worstcase scenario of a major, nationwide cyberattack, properly
exercised COTE plans will help ensure the reconstitution
of the country’s critical economic drivers.
In the third layer, the United States is prepared to
impose costs to deter conflict, limit malicious adversary
behavior below the level of armed conflict, and, if necessary, prevail in war by employing the full spectrum of its
capabilities. Deterrence must extend to limiting attacks
on the U.S. election system and preventing largescale intellectual property theft. To that end, the U.S.
government must demonstrate its ability to impose costs
using all instruments of power, while establishing a clear

declaratory policy that signals to rival states the costs
and risks associated with attacking America in cyberspace. Defend forward is an important part of the cost
imposition layer. The original defend forward concept
put forth by DoD focuses on the military instrument
of power to impose costs to “disrupt or halt malicious
cyber activity at its source, including activity that falls
below the level of armed conflict.”120 Reimagined as a
key element of layered cyber deterrence, defend forward
in this context comprises the proactive and integrated
employment of all of the instruments of power. Defend
forward requires the United States to have the capability
and capacity for sustained engagement in cyberspace to
impose costs on adversaries for engaging in malicious
cyber activity. The cost imposition layer also demands
that the U.S. government protect its ability to respond
with military force at a time and place of its choosing.
A key aspect of this ability is ensuring the security and

Layered Cyber Deterrence
Defend Forward
concurrent, continuous, collaborative

Deterrent Layer
(Mechanism)

Layer 1:
Shape Behavior
(entanglement/norms)

Cybercrime
IP Theft
Adversary
& Defense
Use of Cyber
Industrial Base
Operations
Exfiltration

Layer 2:
Deny Benefits
(denial)

Malign
Influence
Operations

Significant
Attack on Critical
Infrastructure

Layer 3:
Impose Costs
(punishment)

Military
Conflict

Cyber Threat Spectrum

Daily Competition

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Conflict

25

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

resilience of critical weapons systems and functions in
cyberspace.

THE STRATEGIC LOGIC OF DETERRENCE
Layered cyber deterrence adapts an enduring strategy to
defend American interests in cyberspace.121 Over the past
seven decades, deterrence has been the foundation of
U.S. strategy.122 As a strategic concept for managing great
power competition, deterrence played a pivotal role in U.S.
foreign policy during the Cold War.123
Scholars define deterrence as “dissuading someone from
doing something by making them believe the costs to
them will exceed their expected benefit.”124The deterrence
literature distinguishes between a number of different
deterrence strategies, including denial, punishment,
entanglement, and normative taboos. These strategies
take on unique attributes in cyberspace.
Deterrence by punishment, which gained prominence
during the nuclear age, rests on the credible threat to
harm a target’s civilian population or economy, thereby
making the perceived costs of an action unacceptably
high (“countervalue” targeting).125 In cyberspace, deterrence by punishment entails the threat of latent violence
against the non-military assets that a target holds dear.
America’s commitment to international law appropriately places constraints on its willingness to implement
deterrence by punishment in cyberspace. In addition,
scholars of cyber strategy debate the extent to which
cyber capabilities offer a feasible punishment mechanism,
or whether punishment requires lethal capabilities.126
Therefore, in cyberspace the preferred punishment
strategy for democratic nations is to impose costs on
adversaries through targeting key—often government or
illicit, as opposed to commercial and civilian—networks
and infrastructure used to conduct cyber campaigns.
Deterrence by denial entails threatening to physically
impede, reduce the impact of, or increase the costs of
an adversary’s ability to successfully attack American
interests.127 Traditionally, this form of deterrence works

26

by targeting the adversary’s military capabilities (“counterforce” targeting) and/or by shoring up one’s own
defenses to such an extent that offensive operations
by the attacking state are perceived to be inordinately
costly.128 In cyberspace, deterrence by denial works by
increasing the costs to the attacker—beyond just financial
costs—of breaching the deterring state’s defenses. When
the government and private sector collaborate to build
security into connected systems, they reduce the number
of vulnerabilities adversaries can exploit. This form of
denial is especially important for deterring non-state
actors, such as extremists and criminals.
In addition to punishment and denial, deterrence can be
achieved through entanglement and normative taboos.129
Entanglement can deter under conditions of mutual
interdependence, when an attack would create meaningful costs for the attacker as well as the defender.130
Entanglement implies shared risk. For example, two
states may be interconnected through mutually beneficial
economic relationships.131 In cyberspace, we all rely on
the same networks and underlying infrastructure that
supports global connectivity. Cyber operations threaten
this connectivity and create shared risks. Norms can also
contribute to deterrence by “imposing reputational costs
that can damage an actor’s soft power beyond the value
gained from a given attack.”132 In cyberspace, these reputational costs can amplify the threat of punishment and
denial-based activities that deter extreme attacks by states,
helping to discourage espionage and subterfuge beneath
the threshold of armed conflict.
The success of deterrence typically rests on four factors.
First, the deterring state must clearly communicate
the terms of a threat so that the target understands the
behavior expected of it and the potential consequences of
ignoring the threat. Second, the deterrer should ensure
that the threatened costs inflicted on the adversary
outweigh the latter’s perceived benefits from conducting
the undesired action. Third, deterrent threats must be
credible: the deterrer must possess both the capability to
carry out the terms of a threat and the resolve or political

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

will to do so. Importantly, and related to the first point,
the target of deterrence must perceive that costs will
actually be imposed, which means that a deterring state
has to develop mechanisms for signaling credibility to the
target. Finally, deterrent threats should be coupled with
some form of reassurance to the target that if it complies
and does not act, the deterrer will refrain from carrying
out the threatened response.
These criteria illustrate some of the fundamental challenges associated with successfully implementing deterrence in cyberspace. Rather than clearly communicating
an ultimatum to a target, which may tie their hands and
create politically infeasible “red lines,” states may prefer to
retain strategic ambiguity and flexibility. Communication
and signaling could also be complicated by the potential
for misperception. These dynamics are compounded in
cyberspace, where states initially conceal their attacks
and often seek to obscure the source through misattribution, false flags, and proxies. For example, challenges in
establishing timely and accurate attribution can weaken
cyber deterrence by generating doubt about the identity
of the perpetrator of a cyberattack and undermining the
credibility of response options.133
In addition, credibility is a central challenge of deterrence, which is why in his seminal work on the topic,
Arms and Influence, Thomas Schelling devotes considerable energy to this problem and the various means
by which states could enhance the credibility of their
threats (e.g., what he calls hand-tying, brinkmanship, or
the art of commitment).134 In the domain of cyberspace,
states must signal credible commitments not just by
making threats but by taking actions that demonstrate
their willingness and ability to respond to cyber threats.
Signaling, which includes statements or actions that
are meant to communicate information to a target,135 is
especially difficult in cyberspace. The target may simply not perceive the threatened cyber costs to be high
enough to affect its calculus, or the target may be willing
to gamble—knowing that cyber operations and effects
are often unpredictable and fleeting—that a threatened

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

action may not produce the effect intended by the
deterring state.136 Furthermore, cyber signaling about
capability may be ineffective, misinterpreted, or misperceived.137 Conversely, a deterring state may be loath to
reveal certain cyber capabilities that would enhance the
credibility of deterrence because the act of revealing them
may render them ineffective.138
Finally, measuring the success of deterrence can be
a trying enterprise, because a positive outcome is
something that does not happen and effects are often
uncertain. Uncertainty surrounding the effects of cyber
capabilities—both anticipating their likely impact in
advance and measuring the actual harm they cause—can
muddle the battle damage assessments that are essential
for any deterrence calculus.139 In the absence of unique
intelligence collection against adversary decision making,
it can be difficult to determine whether a target chose
not to act mainly because the deterrent threat worked
or for unrelated reasons. In cyberspace, this dynamic
implies a need to support operations designed to deter
an adversary with extensive, all-source intelligence about
adversary decision making that can be used to calibrate
the response. Deterrence is more likely to succeed when
situated within the strategic context and refined to focus
on specific types of behavior or specific adversaries, rather
than on cyber activities in general.140
Deterrence is an enduring American strategy, but it
must be adapted to address how adversaries leverage
new technology and connectivity to attack the United
States. Cyber operations have become a weapon of
choice for adversaries seeking to hold the U.S. economy
and national security at risk.141 Therefore, the concept
of deterrence must evolve to address this new strategic
landscape. Following nearly two decades in which the
U.S. government prioritized counterterrorism and counterinsurgency, great power competition has resurfaced as
America’s central strategic challenge.142 The United States
now faces emerging peer competitors, particularly as
China and Russia reassert their influence regionally and
globally, often through cyber and influence operations

27

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

that undermine American power below the level of
armed conflict.143 Reducing the scope and severity of
these adversary cyber operations and campaigns requires
adopting the strategy of layered cyber deterrence.

DEFEND FORWARD AND LAYERED CYBER
DETERRENCE
Layered cyber deterrence places the U.S. Department of
Defense’s concept of defend forward in a larger, wholeof-nation framework that uses multiple instruments of
power to secure American networks in cyberspace.144
Since the end of World War II, the United States has used
forward-deployed military forces to advance American
interests. This strategic posture was an integral component of the grand strategy of containment for the United
States and NATO. Cold War forward defense involved

both projecting power by positioning U.S. and allied
forces on the front lines of the potential battlefields of
the next world war, and leveraging multiple instruments
of power. These forward-deployed forces served several
purposes: deterrence and signaling U.S. resolve and
capabilities to the Soviet Union; enabling rapid response
from a more advantageous position if conflict should
break out; a source of intelligence and early warning; and
a form of credible commitment to allies.
The connectivity and global reach of cyberspace make
forward defense even more essential today. During the
Cold War, the United States could anticipate where the
front lines would likely be. In cyberspace, it is difficult to
anticipate the battlefield or identify clear front lines. As
NotPetya illustrates, cyberattacks often spill beyond their

Why Is Cyberspace an Odd Domain?
Cyberspace is a fundamentally new, novel, and odd domain for human activity. Unlike the traditional (and more
tangible) domains of land, sea, air, and space, cyberspace is entirely human-made and has existed for only a few
decades. Application of the laws, norms, and expectations of the traditional domains—the fundamental “physics” that has governed the course of human relations—is challenged by and in cyberspace.
In the four traditional domains, strategic competition is shaped by governments; cyberspace is shaped primarily
by market forces. Cyberspace exists almost entirely on privately owned and operated information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure, making it at least as much a good or service as a domain. As a domain of
conflict, cyberspace is a “gray zone” where malicious actors get away with acts of theft, disruption, and even war
that would not be permissible in a traditional domain.145
Outside of cyberspace, hundreds of years of legal tradition and iterative jurisprudence have produced commonly
accepted principles—principles that slowly formed the foundations on which states built their domestic laws
and guided their relations with other nations. Many existing laws still apply in cyberspace, but as technology
continues to evolve, there can be uncertainty about how those laws pertain to this changing landscape, which
is altering the relationship between governments and their citizens.146 As an emerging legal frontier, cyberspace
imposes new and different expectations on the public and private sectors to engage with one another in the
defense of the nation.
Since the creation of cyberspace, the U.S. government, the private sector, and individual Americans have collectively struggled to secure it. Its existence defies millennia of human precedents and traditions. Cyberspace is an
odd domain.

28

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

initial targets and infect other networks. This complication creates an imperative to defend forward and counter
adversaries’ use of cyber operations.147
Layered cyber deterrence builds on the original DoD
defend forward concept. First, like the DoD concept, it
operates as a general strategic principle during day-today competition, in which the U.S. government “will
defend forward to disrupt or halt malicious cyber activity
at its source, including activity that falls below the level
of armed conflict.”148 This posture includes operating
in “gray” and “red” space in a manner consistent with
international law.149 Second, it plays a role in ensuring
that the U.S. government retains the ability to apply all
instruments of power to respond to crisis or conflict.
Applied to military power, this includes ensuring “the
cybersecurity and resilience of DoD, DCI [Defense
Critical Infrastructure], and DIB [Defense Industrial
Base] networks and systems.”150 Finally, cyber layered
deterrence, like defend forward, secures critical infrastructure and safeguards American networks by finding ways
“to stop threats before they reach their targets.”151
Changes to law in the FY2019 National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA)152 and the issuance of National
Security Presidential Memorandum (NSPM) 13153 enable
the U.S. government to adopt a defend forward posture.
This posture was an integral part of the overall U.S. effort
to counter Russian election interference in the 2018
midterm elections.154 As the Commander of U.S. Cyber
Command, General Paul Nakasone, testified in February
2019, “Working together under my command, U.S. Cyber
Command and the National Security Agency (NSA)
undertook an initiative known as the Russia Small Group
to protect the elections from foreign interference and
influence. By enabling our fellow combatant commands
and other partners, U.S. Cyber Command assisted the
collective intelligence and defense effort that demonstrated
persistent engagement in practice.”155 These initiatives are
continuing as part of the interagency effort to defend the
2020 presidential elections.156

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

However, additional improvements to existing law
and policy would further support defend forward and
address some of the challenges that have emerged in the
early phases of its implementation. Most importantly,
defend forward should be integrated at the national
level as part of a U.S. national cyber strategy that
incorporates all of the instruments of power. Including
defend forward as a key element of layered cyber deterrence to counter malicious campaigns below the level
of armed conflict addresses this issue and articulates
how these activities support efforts to shape adversary
behavior, deny benefits, and reinforce norms of responsible behavior.

THE IMPLEMENTATION OF LAYERED CYBER
DETERRENCE
Layered cyber deterrence calls for reconceptualizing
how the U.S. government coordinates cyber policy and
the organizations and authorities aligned to defend
American interests. To date, the U.S. government has
built and operated a number of organizations specifically to support this mission set (e.g., the Cybersecurity
and Infrastructure Security Agency, the National
Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force, the Cyber Threat
Intelligence Integration Center, U.S. Cyber Command,
and the National Security Agency’s Cybersecurity
Directorate). Yet the creation of more organizations, congressional committees, and study groups makes it difficult
to achieve the unity of effort required to conduct layered
cyber deterrence and build the type of systemic resilience
that changes the cost-benefit calculus in cyberspace. As
a result, the United States finds it difficult to collaborate
with the private sector and conduct cyber operations
as part of whole-of-nation campaigns. Despite the new
authorities outlined in the 2019 NDAA and NSPM13 designed to improve government cyber campaign
planning and to conduct offensive cyber operations,
as well as multiple executive orders on securing critical
infrastructure and promoting information sharing, the
U.S. government is still struggling to secure its interests
in cyberspace.

29

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

Layered cyber deterrence is the blueprint that the
government and American public need to build bridges
across government agencies, international partners, and
most importantly the private sector in order to secure
American networks in cyberspace. It is the best way for
the government to implement new authorities and take
appropriate proportional action that builds national resilience as well as disrupts, defeats, and deters active cyber
campaigns, including those targeting critical economic
and political institutions like election systems.157

To translate layered deterrence into action requires three
lines of effort organized into six pillars and more than 75
supporting recommendations that enhance the ability
of the U.S. government to shape adversary behavior,
deny benefits, and impose costs. Defend forward spans
all three lines of effort to identify, isolate, and counter
threats consistent with existing authorities and legal
frameworks.

Layered Cyber Deterrence
CURRENT STATE

Adversaries are
conducting cyber
campaigns that target U.S. networks
in cyberspace and
threaten American
safety and security,
economic interests,
political institutions,
and ability to project military power.

APPROACH

Shape
Behavior
Deny
Benefits

The U.S. government has the
authorities but
lacks the optimal
structure and
Impose
relationships with
Costs
the private sector
and other partners
to achieve a unity
of effort at the scale
required to defend
forward.

PILLARS

Foundation:
Reform
the U.S.
Government
Structure
and
Organization
for
Cyberspace

Strengthen
Norms and Nonmilitary Tools
Promote National
Resilience
Reshape the
Cyber Ecosystem
toward Greater
Security
Operationalize
Cybersecurity
Collaboration
with the Private
Sector
Preserve
and Employ
the Military
Instrument of
Power

DESIRED END STATES

A digital environment that is safe and stable, promotes continued innovation and
economic growth, protects personal privacy,
ensures national security, and does so by
building:
• An international community that observes
and enforces norms of responsible state
behavior
• Critical elements of national power and
infrastructure that are secure, resilient,
and supported by a defensible digital
ecosystem
• Public-private partnerships based on a
shared situational awareness, combined
action, and full support of the U.S. government in defense of the private sector
• An agile, proactive U.S. government
organized to rapidly and concurrently
employ every instrument of national power
in defense of cyberspace and to generate deterrent options tailored to each
adversary
• A cyber force equipped with the resources,
capabilities, and processes to maneuver
and rapidly engage adversaries in and
through cyberspace

30

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S
STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION
FOR CYBERSPACE
n democratic governance, structure is policy. To achieve
the outcomes the United States requires to be more
secure and prosperous in cyberspace—the outcomes this
report seeks to realize—the U.S. government must be
structured properly to realize them. Because cyberspace
increasingly pervades every aspect of our government,
economy, and society, however, this is a uniquely challenging problem. An effective government for the digital
era means a government that has the right authorities, a
coherent strategy, the critical partnerships, and the best
talent. To realize this modern vision of policy requires a
modern structure of government.
The U.S. government has taken necessary and significant steps to deter and disrupt threats from cyberspace,
but they nonetheless remain insufficient to the scale of
the problem. Governmental action has too often been
piecemeal and independent of private-sector insights and
interests, too much information remains over-classified
or narrowly distributed, and a lack of strategic coherence
continues to hinder attempts at improving systemic
national cybersecurity.
The legislative and executive branches must each better
align their authorities and capabilities to produce the
speed and agility of action required to defend America
in cyberspace. There needs to be greater collaboration
between the public and private sectors in the defense
of critical infrastructure and better integration in the
planning, resourcing, and employment of government
cyber resources. The recommendations in this pillar are
intended to provide the U.S. government with the strategic continuity and unity of effort necessary to support
the other pillars and recommendations of this report in
achieving layered cyber deterrence and defending U.S.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

critical infrastructure against cyberattacks of significant
consequence.
First, the executive branch should issue a new national
cyber strategy bringing coherence to the federal government’s efforts. That strategy should be based on this
Commission’s framework of layered cyber deterrence,
emphasize resilience and public-private collaboration,
build on the Department of Defense’s (DoD) concept of
defend forward as a government-wide effort, and prioritize a bias for action.
Second, Congress must improve its oversight of cybersecurity by reorganizing and centralizing its committee
structure and jurisdiction. Responsibility for cybersecurity
is currently dispersed throughout numerous committees
and subcommittees, hamstringing legislative authority,
muddling oversight, and impeding Congress’s ability to act
with the speed and vision necessary for a domain so critical
to national security and the modern economy.
Third, the executive branch must be organized to achieve
the agility and coherence necessary to effectively plan,
support, and employ government cyber resources. There

(The Domino Effect / Khanh Tran,
The Cybersecurity Visuals Challenge)

I

31

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

is no single voice charged and empowered with harmonizing the executive branch’s policies, budgets, and
responsibilities in cyberspace; instead, many departments
and agencies, with different responsibilities for and interests in cybersecurity, compete for resources and authority.
Fourth, the federal government must reform how it
recruits, trains, and educates its workforce to ensure that

it has the necessary cybersecurity talent. Shortages in
such talent are widespread in both the public and private
sectors, and the federal government has a role to play (in
partnership with academia and industry) to “grow the
pie” of qualified cybersecurity workers, make certain that
existing sources of talent are not overlooked, and build
the pipelines and career paths that put the right people in
the right places for confronting threats from cyberspace.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #1:

ALIGN U.S. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY WITH LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE
The executive branch should develop and issue a new national cyber strategy reflecting the strategic approach
of layered cyber deterrence, emphasizing resilience and public-private collaboration, and including the
concept of defend forward, to raise the costs and lower the benefits for malicious cyber activity. Today
various departments and agencies constitute critical but separate components of an effective national cyber
strategy that should be better integrated into a coherent national strategy. This approach will enable the U.S.
government to achieve speed and agility, a bias for action, and effectiveness in cyberspace.

Key Recommendation
1.1 The executive branch should issue an updated National Cyber Strategy.
The executive branch should issue an updated National
Cyber Strategy that embraces the concept of layered
cyber deterrence, with an emphasis on resilience, publicand private-sector collaboration, and defend forward as
key elements.
Any effective strategy for cyberspace will require a coordinated effort across the multiple stakeholders within the
federal government, state and local governments, and
the private sector that are all responsible for securing and
defending the United States in this domain. Therefore, the
strategy must explicitly align and synchronize stakeholder
strategic objectives, identify lines of effort to put the strategy into operation, clarify what priority should be given to
various efforts, and articulate common principles of risk.

32

Importantly, the National Cyber Strategy should include
key concepts of layered cyber deterrence. The first is
deterrence, which has been a long-standing strategic
posture of the United States. Deterrence seeks to prevent an adversary from taking an undesired action by
making a credible threat to impose costs, deny gains, or
shape behavior. Second, it should prioritize deterrence
by denial, which, in cyberspace, must include increasing
the defense and security of cyberspace through resilience
and public- and private-sector collaboration. As more
and more of our critical systems—including those that
underpin our national security, economy, public health
and safety, and elections—come to rely on technology,
ensuring the resilience of these technological systems
becomes synonymous with ensuring the resilience of the

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

nation as a whole. A resilient nation deters adversaries
by denying them the gains they seek from attacking
the United States. Furthermore, as the majority of
U.S. systems and assets are owned and operated by the
private sector, ensuring resilience and defense should be a
responsibility shared between government and industry.
Working together with the private sector to reduce the
vulnerabilities adversaries can target, and mitigating
the consequences even if vulnerabilities are successfully
exploited, the United States can deny them opportunities
to attack American interests through cyberspace.
Third, defend forward, which currently anchors the
DoD’s 2018 Cyber Strategy, should be integrated into
the broader framework of how the government employs
authorities that bear on cyber defense in support of overall layered cyber deterrence goals. Defend forward posits
that to disrupt and defeat adversaries’ ongoing malicious
cyber campaigns, deter future campaigns, and reinforce
favorable international norms of behavior, the United
States must proactively observe, pursue, and counter
adversary operations and impose costs in day-to-day competition. The strategy should clearly express that defend
forward is an integral part of a comprehensive approach
that encompasses all of the instruments of national power
beyond the employment of strictly military capabilities;
these include trade and economic efforts, law enforcement activities, and diplomatic tools.
In describing its defend forward component, the
National Cyber Strategy must clarify a number of points:
• Defend forward is an inherently defensive strategy
that seeks to defend the United States in cyberspace.
However, there are offensive components at the
tactical and operational levels. This is because to
achieve defensive strategic objectives in cyberspace,
forces and capabilities must be forward-positioned,
both geographically and virtually. Such positioning
is consistent with defensive strategic objectives of
analogous historical strategies of forward defense.
• Defend forward is consistent with norms of acceptable behavior defined by the United States and

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

like-minded nations with a shared global interest in
a stable cyberspace. At the same time, the National
Cyber Strategy should acknowledge that norms
of acceptable behavior will not emerge unless the
United States is willing to act, in concert with allies
whenever possible, to impose meaningful costs on
bad actors in cyberspace to change their behavior.
• To induce adversaries to change their behavior, the
United States must create costs below the threshold
at which the full spectrum of credible retaliatory
response options may be triggered. In doing so, the
United States must ensure that effective policies and
processes are in place to guide such actions consistent
with the rule of law and adequate risk assessments.
Finally, the National Cyber Strategy should articulate
a framework for how the U.S. government should put
the approach into operation that is organized around six
pillars: reform the U.S. government’s structure and organization for cyberspace, strengthen norms and non-military tools, promote national resilience, reshape the cyber
ecosystem toward greater security, operationalize cybersecurity collaboration with the private sector, and preserve
and employ the military instrument of power.

Enabling Recommendations
1.1.1 Develop a Multitiered Signaling
Strategy
A key objective of defend forward, as a component of
layered cyber deterrence, is to create costs for adversaries
in order to change their behavior, while minimizing the
risks of escalation. However, the logic of defend forward
(as detailed in the 2018 DoD Cyber Strategy) is missing
an explicit discussion of signaling. To change adversaries’ behavior, it is not sufficient to simply counter their
campaigns and impose costs. Rather, the United States
must signal capability and resolve, as well as communicate how it seeks to change adversary behavior and shape
the strategic environment. Signaling is also essential for
escalation management so that actions taken in support
of defend forward are not unintentionally perceived as
escalatory. Cyber operations and campaigns that are not

33

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

combined with deliberate signaling, so that adversaries
understand what the United States seeks to achieve, will
not always be sufficient to change adversary behavior.
Signaling should entail coordinated employment of
various instruments of power.
Therefore, the U.S. government should develop a multitiered signaling strategy aimed at altering adversaries’
decision calculus and addressing risks of escalation. This
signaling strategy should also effectively communicate to
allies and partners U.S. goals and intent.
• The strategic level of signaling should involve overt,
public diplomatic signaling through traditional
mechanisms that have already been established for
other domains, as well as private diplomatic communications through mechanisms such as hotlines
and other nonpublic channels (including third-party
channels in instances in which the United States may
lack robust diplomatic relationships).
• The operational and tactical levels should involve
clandestine, protected, and covert signaling (including through non-cyber means) that is deliberately
coupled with cyber operations. An example of this
type of signaling is tailored messaging preceding or
running concurrently with defend forward cyber
operations.
A signaling strategy should also include a framework to
guide when and under what conditions the U.S. government will voluntarily self-attribute cyber operations and
campaigns for the purposes of signaling capability and
intent to various audiences.

1.1.2 Promulgate a New Declaratory Policy
When buttressed with clear and consistent action, a
declaratory policy is essential for deterrence because it can
credibly convey resolve. The United States’ declaratory
policy regarding cyberspace now is organized around a

34

use-of-force threshold—which is deliberately politically
and legally ambiguous—and reserves the right for the
United States to respond to a cyberattack in a time,
place, and manner of its choosing. There are two notable
challenges with the current stance.
• First, the existing declaratory policy does not sufficiently communicate resolve or articulate a compelling logic of consequences. Therefore, the U.S.
government should promulgate a new declaratory
policy around a use-of-force threshold. Specifically,
the U.S. government should publicly convey that it
will respond using swift, costly, and, where possible,
transparent consequences against cyber activities that
constitute what the United States defines as a use of
force. This would reinforce deterrence of strategic
cyberattacks.
• Second, our adversaries are clearly exploiting the
current threshold to conduct a range of malicious
activities that do not rise to a level warranting
a major retaliatory response. Examples include
cyber-enabled large-scale theft of intellectual
property and cyber-enabled influence operations.
Therefore, the U.S. government should announce
a second declaratory policy. This policy should
clearly state that the United States will respond
using cyber and non-cyber capabilities to counter
and impose costs against adversary cyber campaigns
below a use-of-force threshold. These responses
would create sufficient costs to alter the adversary’s calculus, but they would be different from
responses to adversary actions above the use-offorce threshold in their means (e.g., conventional
vs. unconventional military capabilities) and their
magnitude, consistent with international law.
Essentially, the U.S. government should publicly
declare that it will defend forward, and couple its
declaration with decisive and consistent action
across all elements of national power.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #2:

STREAMLINE CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT AND AUTHORITY OVER
CYBERSECURITY ISSUES
Congress should establish clear oversight responsibility and authority over cyberspace within the legislative
branch of the U.S. government. Responsibility for cyberspace is currently dispersed throughout Congress,
and the large number of committees and subcommittees claiming some form of jurisdiction impedes
action and clarity of oversight. By centralizing responsibility in the new House Permanent Select and
Senate Select Committees on Cybersecurity, Congress will be empowered to provide coherent oversight to
government strategy and activity in cyberspace.

Key Recommendation
1.2 Congress should create House Permanent Select and Senate Select Committees on
Cybersecurity to consolidate budgetary and legislative jurisdiction over cybersecurity issues, as
well as traditional oversight authority.
Currently, and in both chambers of Congress, legislative
and budgetary jurisdiction and oversight for cybersecurity
are dispersed across numerous committees and subcommittees. This congressional structure on cybersecurity
prevents Congress from effectively providing strategic
oversight of the executive branch’s cybersecurity efforts or
exerting its traditional oversight authority for executive
action and policy in cyberspace.
Congress has previously faced a comparable challenge.
When the 94th Congress (1975–77) investigated
allegations of abuses of authority, illegal activity, and
improprieties by members of what we now refer to as the
intelligence community, Congress substantiated many of
the claims and found them to have been enabled by poor
congressional oversight. Congress addressed this problem
by establishing the House Permanent Select and Senate
Select Committees on Intelligence.158
To consolidate oversight and ensure the implementation of effective cybersecurity strategy and policy, the
Commission recommends establishing a Permanent
Select Committee on Cybersecurity in the House and a
Select Committee on Cybersecurity in the Senate. These

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

committees would have legislative jurisdiction over the
broad integration of systemic cybersecurity strategy and
policy both within government and between the government and the private sector. They would also have oversight responsibilities for executive branch responses to
domestic and foreign cybersecurity threats, government
organization or reorganization to deal with cybersecurity
threats, the protection of federal networks, the confirmation of relevant Senate-confirmed cybersecurity officials,
and the consolidation of federal reporting requirements
for cyber initiatives and relevant data.
Membership and Structure: Like the Select Committees
on Intelligence, these committees should be structured
in a bipartisan manner while prioritizing expertise.
Committee membership, including chair and ranking
member roles, should be determined by congressional
leadership as conventional committee assignments, while
the chairs and ranking members of other cyber-relevant
committees (as determined by congressional leadership)
should also serve as ex-officio members of this committee. Also, like the Select Committees on Intelligence,
these committees should have a membership structure
designed to encourage cross-committee collaboration

35

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

and the sharing of best practices. The final committee
composition should be proportionate to each party’s
composition of the House, and one more seat given to
the majority party in the Senate; to promote institutional
knowledge, committee members should be exempt from
any term limits.
Jurisdiction and Authorities: The House Permanent Select
and Senate Select Committees on Cybersecurity would
consider legislation, hold hearings, subpoena witnesses,
and consider nominations relevant to improving the
United States’ public and private systemic cybersecurity
against domestic and foreign risks (including state-sponsored threats); they would oversee development and
implementation of national cybersecurity strategies and
policies, oversight of the compliance of components of
federal agencies charged with cybersecurity policy and
defensive operations, the organization or reorganization
of agencies related to cybersecurity threats or incidents,
and authorizations for appropriations relating to protecting against cybersecurity threats and relevant incidents or
actions. These committees would also receive recurring
briefings on national-level risk management assessments,
national-level tabletop exercises, and other federal reporting requirements for cyber initiatives and relevant data.
This jurisdiction is designed to emphasize advancing
national systemic cybersecurity, strengthening the digital
ecosystem, and improving whole-of-nation cybersecurity

36

resilience. It is not intended to include activities already
overseen by the House and Senate Armed Services
Committees or the two chambers’ committees on intelligence (such as Title 10 or Title 50 activities, or counterintelligence activities carried out under Title 18), or
to be excessively duplicative of existing executive branch
oversight channels.

Enabling Recommendation
1.2.1 Reestablish the Office of Technology
Assessment
Congress should reestablish and fund the Office of
Technology Assessment (OTA), or another similar
agency, to advise both chambers on cyber and technology policy issues. Before it was dissolved in 1995, OTA
produced over 750 reports in nearly a quarter century
of operations for both congressional and public consumption, ensuring that the legislative branch was fully
informed on technology-related legislative issues that fell
within its purview.159 Other congressional efforts to build
capacity in this area, such as charging the Government
Accountability Office with responsibility for technical
assessment, have not been able to satisfactorily fill the
gap left by the loss of OTA. The scientific and technology
challenges facing policymakers are only becoming more
complex, and Congress would benefit from the agility,
depth, breadth, and objectivity of insight and analysis
provided by an office focused on technology.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #3:

REFORM THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH TO BE MORE AGILE AND EFFECTIVE IN
CYBERSPACE
The executive branch should be restructured and streamlined in order that clear responsibilities and
authorities over cyberspace can be established while it is empowered to proactively develop, implement,
and execute its strategy for cyberspace. Many departments and agencies, with different responsibilities
for and interests in securing cyberspace, compete for resources and power, resulting in conflicting efforts
sometimes carried out at cross-purposes. More consolidated accountability for harmonizing the executive
branch’s policies, budgets, and responsibilities in cyberspace while it implements strategic guidance from
the President and Congress is needed to achieve coherence in the planning, resourcing, and employing of
government cyber resources.

Key Recommendation
1.3 Congress should establish a National Cyber Director (NCD), within the Executive Office of the
President, who is Senate-confirmed and supported by the Office of the National Cyber Director.
The NCD would serve as the President’s principal advisor for cybersecurity and associated
emerging technology issues; the lead for national-level coordination for cyber strategy, policy,
and defensive cyber operations; and the chief U.S. representative and spokesperson on
cybersecurity issues.
The NCD would be appointed by and report directly to
the President, be Senate-confirmed, and be supported by
a concurrently established Office of the National Cyber
Director inside the Executive Office of the President
(EOP). (It thus would be positioned similarly to the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.) The NCD
nomination to the Senate would be considered by
both the Armed Services and Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committees, until and unless a
Select Committee on Cybersecurity (recommendation
1.2) is established, at which time the latter committee
should assume primary jurisdiction over the NCD nomination and office.
Numerous commissions, initiatives, and studies have recommended a more robust and institutionalized national-level mechanism for coordinating cybersecurity and
associated emerging technology issues, and for overseeing
the executive branch’s development and implementation

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

of an integrated national cybersecurity strategy. As emerging technology- and cyberspace-related issues become
more complex, and consequently a greater threat to U.S.
national security, the President’s need for sound advice
and timely options will be increasingly critical.
The NCD would not direct or manage day-to-day
cybersecurity policy or the operations of any one federal
agency, but instead will be responsible for the integration of cybersecurity policy and operations across the
executive branch. Specifically, the NCD would (1) be
the President’s principal advisor on cybersecurity and
associated emerging technology issues and the lead
national-level coordinator for cyber strategy and policy;
(2) oversee and coordinate federal government activities
to defend against adversary cyber operations inside the
United States; (3) with concurrence from the National
Security Advisor or the National Economic Advisor,
would convene Cabinet-level or National Security

37

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Council (NSC) Principals Committee–level meetings and
associated preparatory meetings; and (4) would provide
budgetary review of designated agency cybersecurity
budgets.
Structure and Responsibilities: The NCD, supported by the
Office of the National Cyber Director within the White
House’s EOP, would report directly to the President. The
NCD would serve on the NSC for relevant (cybersecurity
and associated emerging technology) issues. The NCD
would lead the development and coordination of national-level cyber strategy, cyber policy, and defensive cyber
operations, including working through the NSC process
to set national-level priorities and produce the National
Cyber Strategy of the United States. The NCD would
also lead White House efforts to support and develop
the private-public collaboration needed to defend our
national critical infrastructure and provide coordination
on emerging cross-cutting technology and security challenges, such as intellectual property theft, 5G infrastructure policy, and internet governance.
Authorities: The NCD would be added to the statutory
list of National Security Council regular attendees. With
concurrence from the National Security Advisor or the
National Economic Advisor, the NCD would have
the capability to convene Cabinet or NSC Principals
Committee meetings and the numerous associated preparatory meetings to address cybersecurity and emerging
technology issues. Further, the NCD would oversee the
compliance of executive departments and agencies with
national-level guidance on cybersecurity priorities, strategies, policies, and resource allocations. The NCD will
coordinate interagency efforts to defend against adversary
cyber operations against domestic U.S. interests; this

38

will not impinge on DoD responsibility for Title 10
activities, Office of the Director of National Intelligence
(ODNI) responsibility for Title 50 activities, or the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) responsibility for counterintelligence
activities, but the NCD would be kept fully apprised of
those activities.
The NCD would have budgetary oversight over the
cybersecurity community, which is defined as including
those areas within the executive branch whose work is
critical to the success of the National Cyber Strategy.
In the executive branch, each program manager, agency
head, and department head with responsibilities under
the National Cyber Strategy shall transmit the cyber budget request of the program, agency, or department to the
NCD prior to sending it to the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB). If the NCD determines that the
budget proposed is not in alignment with the National
Cyber Strategy, then he or she will recommend appropriate revisions. The NCD’s passback revisions must
be addressed in the proposed budget and submitted to
OMB along with a statement describing the impact of
the required budgetary changes on the ability of that program, agency, or department to perform its mission, or,
if they cannot be implemented under reasonable circumstances or timelines, what obstacles must be overcome in
order to do so. Any significant changes by OMB to the
cybersecurity budget of any agency or department would
require the concurrence of the NCD.
Resources: The Office of the National Cyber Director
would be staffed at a size similar to that of comparable
EOP institutions (approximately 50 persons).160

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

Key Recommendation
1.4 Congress should strengthen the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) in
its mission to ensure national resilience of critical infrastructure, to promote a more secure cyber
ecosystem, and to serve as the central civilian cybersecurity authority to support federal, state
and local, and private-sector cybersecurity efforts.
Congress and successive administrations have worked
diligently to establish CISA, creating a new agency that
can leverage broad authorities to receive and share information, provide technical assistance to operators, and
partner with stakeholders across the executive branch,
state and local communities, and private sector. CISA
has the mission of ensuring the security and resilience of
critical infrastructure and is intended to be a keystone of
national cybersecurity efforts. CISA, through partnering
with the private sector and coordinating across government, is charged with securing the critical infrastructure
and functions on which the American government
and economy rely and ensuring a coordinated civilian
response to cyber threats.
While CISA has worked aggressively to carry out these
significant duties, it has not been adequately resourced
or empowered to do so. The agency’s convening power,
though a critical tool in public-private collaboration,
is not widely understood or consistently recognized. In
addition, the agency lacks the analytic capacity to assess,
plan for, and lead efforts to mitigate national systemic
cyber risk; nor does it have the dedicated resources to
extend its activities sufficiently beyond federal information technology (IT) practices to capture a nationwide
perspective on cybersecurity risk and resilience. The
establishment of CISA has not effectively centralized
federal civilian responsibilities; rather, uncertainty and
ambiguity about the roles of sector-specific agencies and
other federal agencies continue. To realize policymakers’
ambitions for CISA to improve the nation’s cybersecurity,
it must be strengthened and resourced appropriately
for its growing role and status as an operational agency
within DHS.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Strengthen the Director Position: Congress should give the
Director of CISA a five-year term and elevate the position
to level II of the Executive Schedule, or equivalent to
a Deputy Secretary and to Military Service Secretaries.
Congress should also consider making the posts of
Assistant Director career positions to provide greater
consistency and continuity.
Program and Support Resources: Congress should increase
CISA’s funding for administrative and programs support,
so that it can enhance current operations and transition
from being a headquarters element to an operational
agency within DHS. Resources are particularly needed
to underwrite personnel recruitment, development, and
retention as well as analytic and big data processing to
support current programs.
Expanded Budget: Congress should review CISA’s budget
and consider giving proportionally greater resources to
projects and programs intended to support private-sector
cybersecurity, to promote public-private integration, and
to increase situational awareness of threat. Nearly 60
percent of CISA’s budget is dedicated to federal cybersecurity, with only 15 percent committed to initiatives
supporting the private sector. In addition, Congress
should consider providing stable multiyear funding to
ensure the flexibility necessary to build lasting analytical
capability across multiple budget years.
Appropriate Facilities: In developing the resources and
support model, the executive branch and Congress
should examine current CISA facilities and assess
their suitability to fully support current and projected
mission requirements nationally and regionally. The
General Services Administration should provide a report
to Congress including recommendations for further

39

(U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency)

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

CISA Director Christopher Krebs and former DHS Secretary
Kirstjen Nielsen hold a press conference on election
security in the National Cybersecurity and Communications
Integration Center (August 2018).

resources to procure or build a new facility or augment
existing facilities to ensure sufficient size and accommodations for the integration of personnel from the private
sector and other departments and agencies to meet the
goals of this report.
Incident Management and Recovery: Congress and the
U.S. government should strengthen CISA’s ability to aid
the public and private sectors in recovering from a significant cyber incident. The agency should be sufficiently
funded and empowered to coordinate whole-of-government efforts in managing incidents that are not met with
an “emergency declaration,” and to seamlessly integrate
with the Federal Emergency Management Agency when
they are. CISA must be prepared to use new authorities
and funds detailed in the “Promote National Resilience”
pillar, such as the Cyber State of Distress and Cyber

40

Response and Recovery Fund (recommendation 3.3),
and ensure that they are integrated into updates of the
National Cyber Incident Response Plan and a national
cyber response doctrine. Further, additional resources
are needed to conduct cross-agency and jurisdictional

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

cybersecurity tabletop exercises and to support CISA’s
hunt and incident response team.

representatives from across the 16 critical infrastructure
sectors.161

National Risk Management: Congress should recognize
and provide sufficient resources to support CISA’s
emergent efforts to identify and mitigate risks to
national critical functions and to serve as the primary
federal entity responsible for organizing and coordinating whole-of-government, public-private activities to
identify, assess, and manage national risk. As detailed
in the “Promote National Resilience” pillar, Congress
should codify CISA responsibilities and ensure sufficient
resources for its national risk management programs,
including its support to sector-specific agencies, its
critical role in Continuity of the Economy planning (recommendation 3.2), and its identification of systemically
important critical infrastructure (recommendation 5.1).

Continuous Threat Hunting: Congress should strengthen
CISA’s ability to conduct continuous threat hunting
across .gov networks, which will enhance CISA’s ability to
both protect federal civilian networks and provide useful
threat intelligence to critical infrastructure. Continuous
threat hunting on the .gov domain will enable CISA to
quickly detect, identify, and mitigate threats to federal
networks. Resulting information on malware, indicators
of compromise, and adversary tactics, techniques, and
procedures can be shared with public and private critical
infrastructure, which may be similarly targeted by these
actors, to bolster their defenses.

Cyber Defense and Security Collaboration: Congress and the
U.S. government should strengthen CISA’s operational
capabilities by equipping it with the resources, tools,
and authorities necessary to fully integrate the government’s and the private sector’s understanding of cyber
threat into a cohesive, national picture and coordinated
action. To support these efforts, further detailed below
in the “Operationalize Cybersecurity Collaboration
with the Private Sector” pillar, Congress should increase
government support to systemically important critical
infrastructure (recommendation 5.1), establish and fund
a Joint Collaborative Environment (recommendation
5.2), increase integration among federal cyber centers and
CISA (recommendation 5.3), and establish a Joint Cyber
Planning Cell (recommendation 5.4).
Cybersecurity Advisory Committee: The Secretary of
Homeland Security should establish a Cybersecurity
Advisory Committee to advise, consult, and make
recommendations to CISA on policies, programs, and
rulemakings, among other items, to account for non-federal interests. The committee should be exempt from
the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee
Act and be composed of state, local, and private-sector

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Enabling Recommendations
1.4.1 Codify and Strengthen the Cyber
Threat Intelligence Integration Center
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence,
through its Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center,
plays a critical role in generating a whole-of-government
understanding of significant cyber threats affecting the
United States and could assist in providing analysis and
coordination necessary for rapid and accurate attribution.
In the 2015 Presidential Memorandum that establishes
it, CTIIC is charged with acting as the primary federal
integration point for all-source analysis, production, and
dissemination of intelligence on significant malicious
cyber activity—to inform both U.S. government and
private-sector decision makers. However, CTIIC needs
to be fully resourced to carry out the entire scope of its
mission, including sufficient funding, manpower, and
analytical resources to fully support federal departments
and agencies in their operations and the intelligence
products that these agencies provide to private-sector and
international partners.
To ensure adequate resources, Congress should codify
and establish CTIIC through legislation, using as a
model the 2015 Presidential Memorandum that created
the center, and strengthen CTIIC’s ability to carry out its

41

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

responsibilities, especially in enhancing the quality and
speed of attribution.
• Congress should appropriate the resources necessary
for CTIIC to carry out all mission areas enumerated
in the 2015 Presidential Memorandum.
• Congress should appropriate all necessary funds to
ensure that CTIIC can reliably provide reimbursement to departments and agencies for detailees.
• ODNI should continue existing efforts to improve
and expand the office’s cyber mission, including
operational and organizational improvements to
CTIIC.

1.4.2 Strengthen the FBI’s Cyber Mission and
the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task
Force
The cyber threat presents a unique challenge—it typically
involves foreign-based actors making use of domestic
infrastructure to obscure their true origin before victimizing U.S. organizations and individuals. Therefore,
understanding the cyber threat requires domestic intelligence gathering, evidence collection, technical and
human operations, and the cooperation of victims and
third-party providers to support investigative efforts.
The FBI has a unique dual responsibility: to prevent
harm to national security as the nation’s domestic intelligence agency and to enforce federal laws as the nation’s
primary federal law enforcement agency. Both roles are
essential to investigating and countering the cyber threat,
and are critical in supporting whole-of-government
campaigns supporting layered cyber deterrence. FBI’s
cyber mission—synthesized through the multiagency
National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF)
and a nationwide network of field offices and Cyber
Task Forces—has long participated in these coordinated
cyber campaigns. Officially established in 2008 under
National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD) 54,
the NCIJTF is composed of over 20 partnering agencies

42

from across law enforcement, the intelligence community, and the Department of Defense to coordinate,
integrate, and share information to support cyber threat
investigations. Additional resources for FBI and NCIJTF,
in combination with complementary recommendations
to strengthen CISA and ODNI’s CTIIC, will ensure
that they each can support the other and carry out their
respective missions.
Congress and the executive branch should take steps
to ensure that the FBI is properly resourced to carry
out its cyber mission, perform attribution, strengthen
whole-of-government counter-threat campaigns, and
enable other agencies’ missions in support of national
strategic objectives. Specifically:
• Enhance investigative and analytical personnel – FBI
investigators, analysts, and computer scientists are
located throughout the country to conduct the investigations and analysis necessary to attribute attacks to
and impose consequences on malicious cyber actors.
• Expand technical capability – The FBI’s responses to
cyber incidents require sophisticated tools and platforms to collect and analyze essential evidence and
enable investigative techniques. These technologies
are used by cyber investigators throughout the field
and by the FBI’s elite Cyber Action Team, deployed
worldwide as needed.
• Empower interagency collaboration – To ensure that all
relevant agencies, such as U.S. Secret Service, are able
to participate in the NCIJTF, additional resources
are needed to adequately fund personnel-related
expenses.
• Support joint operational resources – NCIJTF operates
the 24/7 CyWatch and the CyNERGY platform for
coordinating targeted entity (or victim) notifications.
These capabilities must be scaled up to meet the
requirements identified by CISA and other stakeholders, including sector-specific agencies.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #4:

RECRUIT, DEVELOP, AND RETAIN A STRONGER FEDERAL CYBER
WORKFORCE
The U.S. government should recruit, develop, and retain a cyber workforce capable of building a
defensible digital ecosystem and enabling the agile, effective deployment of all tools of national power
in cyberspace. Doing so will require designing innovative programs and partnerships to develop the
workforce, supporting and expanding good programs where they are already in place, and connecting
with a diverse pool of promising talent. Sometimes success in building a robust federal workforce depends
on elements outside of the federal government. In those cases, the U.S. government can and should play
a supporting role by providing its partners in workforce development the tools needed to accelerate the
increase in cyber personnel.

Key Recommendation
1.5 Congress and the executive branch should pass legislation and implement policies designed
to better recruit, develop, and retain cyber talent while acting to deepen and diversify the pool
of candidates for cyber work in the federal government.
The challenge of achieving effective security and defense
in cyberspace depends on people as much as it does on
technology or policy. Today, the U.S. government suffers
from a significant shortage in its cyber workforce. Across
the public sector more broadly, one in three positions
(more than 33,000) remains unfilled.162 These shortages
are driven by a need for personnel that have specific
cybersecurity skills and experience, but they are complicated by government hiring, training, and development
pathways that are not well-suited to recruit and retain
those personnel.
Commit to Recruiting beyond Conventional Pathways into
Government: The good news is that today’s cybersecurity
skills and experiences can be gained with unusual ease
outside standard channels of education and training. That
means, however, that the government must more effectively take advantage of those unconventional pathways,
especially when they do not include typical college education or prior government experience. Overall government
approaches to successfully deepen and diversify this
candidate pool should include:

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

• Developing programs to bring in new employees via
apprenticeships, promoting cooperative study, and
expanding training programs so that existing workers
can enhance their career trajectories.
• Researching and implementing measures of competency alongside more commonly used certifications.
• Streamlining processes and reducing institutional
barriers to onboarding cyber talent quickly.
• Identifying opportunities and building hiring pathways for members of underrepresented communities,
including the neurodiverse,163 women, and people of
color.
Provide Policy and Legislative Tools to Grow the Cyber
Workforce: To achieve these objectives for recruiting
today’s cybersecurity talent into public service, the government should pursue the following:
• Congress should fund research into the current state
of the cyber workforce, paths to entry, and demographics in coordination with the ongoing work
at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM),
DHS, the National Science Foundation (NSF), and

43

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST). This research should align with and/or build
on NIST’s National Initiative on Cybersecurity
Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce
Framework, which outlines cybersecurity work
roles and the knowledge, skills, abilities, and tasks
involved in each role. New research should also build
on emerging work from NICE and others on career
paths and certifications.
• Congress should resource recruiting programs specifically designed to target cyber talent and expand
current programs that have made demonstrated
progress in innovating recruitment.
• Congress and the executive branch should reinforce
and authorize the role of the NICE in coordinating
U.S. government efforts to advance cybersecurity
workforce development nationwide, and resource the
office sufficiently for this role.
• Congress should require the Government
Accountability Office (GAO) to issue a report within
one year: (1) estimating how frequently candidates
are deterred from pursuing government careers
because of delays in issuing security clearances;
(2) assessing the effectiveness of current clearance
processes at striking a balance between the national
security risk of insider threats, and the national
security risk of leaving cyber jobs vacant; and (3)
recommending a lead agency for developing and
implementing a plan for addressing any shortcomings discovered.
Develop and Retain Cybersecurity Talent: Upon entering government, cybersecurity personnel should have
rewarding career paths and the education and training
opportunities necessary to keep their skills relevant and
up-to-date in a rapidly changing field. To meet these
objectives, Congress should:
• Fund DHS, NSF, and OPM to expand the existing
CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service program. Since
its inception in 2001, this proven program has
graduated 3,600 students. The program should be

44

•

•

•

•

•

resourced to grow steadily and eventually reach as
many as 2,000 students per year.
Direct and fund CISA to design a process for one- to
three-year exchange assignments of cyber experts
from both CISA and the private sector. If successful,
this model should be expanded to other agencies as
well.
Direct OPM, NICE, and DoD to design cybersecurity-specific upskilling and transition assistance programs for veterans and transitioning military service
members to move into federal civilian cybersecurity
jobs.
Direct OPM to require departments and agencies to
develop training for managers to cultivate practices
that foster a more diverse cyber workforce and more
inclusive work environment.
Require federal cyber contractors to implement
known best-practice workplace policies in order to
improve employee retention on federal contracts.
Direct OPM, in partnership with federal departments and agencies including NIST and DHS, to
issue a report evaluating the potential for a new Civil
Service Cyber: a system of established cyber career
paths that allows movement between departments
and agencies and into senior leadership positions.
In order to facilitate movement between different
departments and agencies, this plan should:
ű Establish greater standardization and demonstrated equivalences across the government.
ű Incorporate competence-based metrics, workbased learning programs, and—after rigorous
assessment of their utility and impact—cyber
aptitude tests.
ű Include standardization tools such as the NICE
Cybersecurity Workforce Framework and the
Cyber Talent Management System (CTMS). The
new CTMS—to be launched at DHS starting in
FY2020—will establish a new DHS cybersecurity
service, composed of civilian employees hired
using streamlined processes, new assessments,
and market-sensitive compensation. If CTMS is

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE
AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE

successful at DHS, it should be considered for
aggressive expansion federal government–wide.

Enabling Recommendation
1.5.1 Improve Cyber-Oriented Education
In almost every industry and discipline, future careers
will require both a basic and ongoing education in cyber.
It is increasingly vital that schools teach students to value
cybersecurity in their own decisions and to start cultivating the skills needed for a career in the field. Accordingly,
the federal government should provide resources, tools,
and incentives to encourage and aid local decision makers
in implementing improved cyber education in their
school systems. The U.S. government should:
• Develop a secure online clearinghouse for K-12
classroom resources on cybersecurity.
• Develop work-based learning programs and apprenticeships to supplement classroom learning.

• Support cybersecurity clinics at colleges and universities to serve as educational hands-on training
opportunities for students while serving as a valuable
resource to their community.
• Expand the existing Centers of Academic Excellence
program to encourage cyber coursework in fields
such as business, law, and health care.
• Incorporate cybersecurity into safety curricula for
career and technical education programs focused on
operational technology users, maintainers, and installers, particularly in critical infrastructure fields.164
• Promote professional development programs for
K-12 teachers that encourage them to model safe,
secure, and privacy-aware internet practices in classrooms (outside of specific cybersecurity instruction).
• Further explore ways to expand programs such as the
FBI Cyber STEM program and CISA’s Cybersecurity
Education Training Assistance Program on a national
scale.

How Can Public-Private Partnerships Help Build the Nation’s Cybersecurity Workforce?
With more than 470,000 U.S. cybersecurity job vacancies in the private sector alone,165 simply expanding government recruitment efforts is not sufficient to provide the cybersecurity workforce needed to protect national security. Rather, the nation’s
cybersecurity workforce development ecosystem must grow as a whole. Currently, innovative programs are taking the first
steps toward addressing this need by building partnerships between educators, government, and industry. For example:
The Cybersecurity Apprenticeship Program in North Carolina: The state of North Carolina is working with Innovative Systems
Group, a local IT contracting firm, to train cybersecurity apprentices. The firm selects candidates—most of whom are veterans—and places them in an immersive training program. Afterward, the apprentices work alongside mentors at the North
Carolina Department of Information Technology.166
Cyber Talent Initiative: The Cyber Talent Initiative, a public-private partnership between Mastercard, Microsoft, Workday, the
nonprofit Partnership for Public Service, and the U.S. government, provides recent cybersecurity graduates with a job in the
federal government for two years and a chance to work for the partnering private-sector companies thereafter. Those who take
private-sector jobs receive $75,000 in student loan support.167
By drawing on different resources from across academia, industry, and government, these programs increase the pool of
skilled workers available throughout the ecosystem while reducing or eliminating the cost of learning to individuals in the programs. The federal government cannot focus merely on cutting itself a bigger slice of the cybersecurity workforce pie. Rather,
by using tools like these partnerships—and carefully evaluating progress—the government must support growing the whole
pie of talent needed throughout the nation.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

45

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND
NON-MILITARY TOOLS

L

ayered cyber deterrence includes shaping the behavior of cyber actors through strengthened norms of
responsible state behavior and strengthened non-military
tools. Norms, which are “collective expectations for the
proper behavior of actors with a given identity,”168 already
exist in cyberspace but can be bolstered by building on
the United States’ network of international allies and
partners and their shared commitment to enforcing those
expectations. Together, like-minded states with a common vision of an open, free, and stable cyberspace can
better shape behavior through the attribution of malign
actors and the application of the full range of government
powers in a cooperative and consistent manner. Nonmilitary tools of state power such as law enforcement,
sanctions, diplomatic engagement, and capacity building
are among the options for generating credible costs and
benefits for norms enforcement, and they are more effective when applied in concert with international partners
and allies.
While unilateral activity can provide the greatest shortterm flexibility, norms-based multilateral engagement
provides a more effective means to reduce the likelihood
and effectiveness of cyberattacks for three reasons.
First, norms change an adversary’s decision calculus.
When malicious actors know that rule breaking will be
confronted by a global community of allies and partners—rather than a small group of individual states—
they anticipate that bad behavior is likely to be more
severely punished.
Second, a system of norms enforced by multiple actors
is a relatively cost-effective means of bringing greater stability to cyberspace because it reduces the burden on any
one nation to reinforce the system of norms. The costs
and effort associated with activities such as intelligence
collection and analysis, attribution, and response actions

46

can be shared and the activities more effectively carried
out by the coalition.
Third, frameworks of norms are sticky—once a pattern of behavior is set, the framework becomes hard to
dislodge. The United States and its allies would therefore
benefit from being the first to establish the norms agenda.169 These three arguments for effectiveness underscore
not that a norms-based system is infallible, but rather
that it is well-suited to serve as a first layer of deterrence,
complemented by other layers. Accordingly, maximizing
the effectiveness of norms and non-military tools of
statecraft leads to a more stable and secure cyberspace.
The United States is confronted with a challenge in building a community of like-minded states. A small coalition
of its closest allies offers agility and trust because the
members share principles and goals. However, engagement
with a large and diverse community of partners builds
broader support for an open, free, and stable cyberspace.
Such an inclusive approach is especially important currently because U.S. adversaries are engaging diplomatically
with non-aligned states to erode this common vision for
the internet.170 The United States has begun to address the
task of striking the right balance between agility and inclusivity both through the U.S. State Department’s Cyber
Deterrence Initiative, which is designed to bring together
like-minded partners and allies to deter malicious behavior,
and through other diplomatic outreach. Though this is an
important start, to be truly effective the State Department’s
efforts in cyberspace diplomacy must be adequately supported and resourced.
Having a community of like-minded states can better
strengthen norms and shape behavior through the
collective imposition of non-military tools of state power,
including sanctions, law enforcement, and intelligence
sharing. These partners can, on a voluntary basis, add

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS

their voices to public statements and attributions, and
participate in other consequences outside of the cyber
domain. They may also engage in exercises to demonstrate joint capacity and preparedness to adversaries.
Ultimately, a coalition can be effective in enforcing rules
only if rules exist and align with the U.S. vision for an
open, interoperable, reliable, and secure internet.
Preserving a secure and open internet is not just a diplomatic challenge; it is also a technical one. An internet that
prioritizes the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information for all users depends on shared implementation of secure protocols and standards. By participating
in standards-setting bodies and building a reputation for
making contributions to the global body of best practices,
the U.S. technical community, particularly the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)—together

with like-minded state and non-state contributors—can
serve as a defense against adversaries who would steer the
internet toward greater surveillance and fragmentation.
The recommendations supporting this pillar emphasize strengthening norms and non-military tools of
state power. Creating within the U.S. Department of
State the Bureau of Cyberspace Security and Emerging
Technologies, led by an Assistant Secretary of State,
will bring leadership and focus to this effort. Enhanced
tools, including cyber capacity building, international
cyber law enforcement, sanctions and trade enforcement,
attribution capability, and confidence-building measures
as part of the non-military component of defend forward,
can be used by the United States, along with its partners
and allies, to impose costs, encourage responsible state
behavior, and promote a stable cyberspace.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE:

EXPAND EFFORTS THROUGH INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENT TO
STRENGTHEN AND REINFORCE NORMS IN CYBERSPACE
The United States should create a broad like-minded community of allies and partners to maintain and
reinforce norms that underpin a favorable cyber landscape. International norms are the framework upon
which all measures for shaping behavior in cyberspace are built. Aligning this framework with U.S.
interests and values is critical. Moreover, if the international community does not generally agree to or
understand what the United States considers acceptable behavior, then efforts to punish bad behavior and
reward responsible behavior may be ineffective or misinterpreted.

Key Recommendation
2.1 Congress should create and adequately resource, within the U.S. Department of State, the
Bureau of Cyberspace Security and Emerging Technologies (CSET), led by an Assistant Secretary
of State.
Expectations for behavior—norms—already exist in
cyberspace, but some state and non-state actors defy
them, eroding their effectiveness. The United States can
reinforce these expectations by assembling a coalition

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

of allies and like-minded partners to collectively incentivize responsible state behavior in cyberspace and hold
states accountable for bad behavior. Responses to malign
behavior are more effective when carried out by multiple

47

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

governments acting in concert. Building this coalition
in the face of competing efforts from China and Russia
takes leadership, resources, and personnel, however. To
enable the U.S. State Department to form such a coalition, Congress should create the Bureau of Cyberspace
Security and Emerging Technologies (CSET), led by an
Assistant Secretary reporting to the Under Secretary for
Political Affairs or someone of higher rank.
In addition to guiding the formation of a coalition of likeminded partners and allies, the bureau should be responsible for a range of mission sets required to implement
layered cyber deterrence. These areas should include advocating for norms of responsible state behavior in cyberspace
and confidence-building measures, responding diplomatically with the international community to cyber threats,
advocating for internet freedom, ensuring a secure digital
economy, building capacity in our partners and allies to
combat cybercrime, and any other mission areas that the
Secretary of State assigns to the bureau. Collectively, these
elements work together as part of defending forward.
CSET will not replace the overseas work of other agencies, but rather will ensure the coherence of U.S. efforts
abroad and ensure the alignment of those efforts with U.S.
national strategy. The head of this bureau should be Senateconfirmed and hold the rank and status of ambassador.
He or she should coordinate international issues with the
National Cyber Director, and both would testify before the
newly formed Select Cybersecurity Committees.
Congress should provide additional funding to this
new bureau for its personnel and programs needed to
carry out its international cyber mission, especially the
mission of building a robust coalition. The mandate for
the new CSET bureau is particularly critical because
like-minded partners and allies who support a rules-based
international order in cyberspace expand the capacity for
enforcing such rules while reducing the expense to any
one government of holding bad actors accountable for
violating them. The U.S. government has already begun
work to build a coalition of like-minded partners and
allies,171 and these efforts should be resourced to expand

48

to the fullest scale possible. This coalition building is the
primary focus of the Department of State’s emerging
Cyber Deterrence Initiative (CDI). The U.S. government
should maximize the utility of this approach by strengthening existing bilateral and multilateral relationships,
such as the Five Eyes (the intelligence alliance comprising
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom,
and the United States) and NATO, and by bringing new
nations into the coalition.
Partners and allies contribute to the coalition in a
variety of ways. A highly capable and committed core
of closely aligned allies is essential, but cultivating new
partners even among less closely aligned or technically
capable states remains valuable. These partners can, on
a voluntary basis, add their voices to public statements
and attributions, and participate in other consequences
outside of the cyber domain (e.g., sanctions). They may
also engage in exercises to demonstrate to adversaries the
coalition’s joint capacity and preparedness. Over time, the
coalition could expand its focus from guaranteeing clear
and credible consequences for bad behavior to preventing
and constraining such behavior before it happens.
Commitments with aligned allies and partners should not
preclude broader international engagement. Coordinating
with the international community writ large to harmonize policies and practices is a crucial first step toward
creating a rules-based order in cyberspace. Ultimately,
long-term change in norms enforcement requires
engagement from the larger international community—a
process that starts with appropriate leadership, resources,
and personnel within the Department of State.

Enabling Recommendations
2.1.1 Strengthen Norms of Responsible State
Behavior in Cyberspace
The international community has agreed to cyber
norms in several forums, including the United Nations.
However, these norms have been unevenly implemented
and enforced. Furthermore, our adversaries are using
these bodies to advance alternative visions for the future

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS

of cyberspace. Smart engagement with the international community there will strengthen existing norms
and ensure countries’ continued alignment with the
U.S. vision for a free and open future of the internet.
Therefore, the U.S. government, led by CSET, should:
• Take a sector-by-sector approach to norms implementation: Prioritize norms against malicious cyber activity
targeting elements of critical infrastructure that
underpin shared global stability, such as the financial
services sector, building on the existing norm against
attacking critical infrastructure (CI).
• Discuss norms at head-of-state levels: Seek to address,
where practical, cyberspace policy in venues in which
heads of state participate, such as the G7 and G20.

• Engage in both inclusive and exclusive forums:
Expand engagement in the United Nations Group
of Governmental Experts on Developments in the
Field of Information and Telecommunications in
the Context of International Security (UN GGE)
and the Open-Ended Working Group (OEWG),
the Organization for Security and Co-operation in
Europe (OSCE), and other forums. These organizations provide important venues in which to reinforce
rules that support the U.S. vision for an open,
interoperable, reliable, and secure internet.
Since 2009, the UN GGE has been a productive venue
for the United States. Although the group was unable

Why Is International Engagement So Critical to Securing Cyberspace?
If the United States does not proactively advocate for an open, interoperable, reliable, and secure internet, then those with
an alternative authoritarian vision will win the day in international forums, harming both U.S. national security and U.S. economic interests. Achieving layered cyber deterrence against this authoritarian vision will require a resourced and effective
Department of State to coordinate diplomatic efforts and reinforce free and open cyber norms.
Unfortunately, efforts to expand authoritarian norms have already begun. The United Nations in 2018 adopted a Russian- and
Chinese-supported resolution that would fundamentally change efforts against cybercrime. It could eventually lead to a
fragmented internet, undermining international cybercrime investigations and allowing greater state control of cyberspace
infrastructure to suppress dissent.172 The Russian- and Chinese-supported resolution threatens to normalize actions by authoritarian governments to exert greater control over online speech, block websites critical of their rule, and coordinate with other
governments to isolate, undermine, and oppress dissidents abroad.173
Our competitors understand what is at stake and are investing heavily in shaping the diplomatic environment for this authoritarian vision of cyberspace—all while the United States’ investments in cyberspace diplomacy have lagged. After significant
increases, China is now the second-largest contributor to the UN budget, and it is seeking to maximize its influence in that
body.174 Outside the UN, analysts estimate that Chinese spending on public diplomacy and propaganda outpaces the U.S.
Department of State’s spending by about 17 times.175 For the first time in decades, the United States no longer leads the world
in the number of diplomatic posts—China is now the most-networked great power.176 As Russia and China work together
to challenge the U.S. vision of cyberspace, China’s increasing diplomatic presence puts weight behind the strategic aims of
Russia’s UN proposal.
Governance of cyberspace is complex, and the domain cannot be kept free and open without widespread support. Without
well-resourced and persistent diplomatic efforts, the United States will be unable to effectively advocate for and defend its
values in international forums, leaving our adversaries to use cyberspace diplomacy as a means to promote their authoritarian
interests and cause permanent damage to cyberspace and the internet’s fundamental principles.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

49

to produce a consensus report after its 2016–17
meeting,177 it continues to serve as a gathering
point for states to establish shared understandings
of acceptable behavior in cyberspace. U.S. foreign
policy can draw on those understandings to build
consensus around the imposition of costs—for
example, by using sanctions, indictments,
diplomatic signaling,178 and other mechanisms to
punish rule breaking. But while the United States
has focused on like-minded states to preserve
the effectiveness of the UN GGE in the face of
Russian and Chinese efforts to derail progress,
Russia has recently initiated the OEWG, a
Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan hosts the Ministerial Meeting
parallel multilateral process that engages a much
on Advancing Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace, on the
broader set of actors.179 This larger OEWG risks
margins of the 73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly, in
taking the norms conversation in a direction
New York City on September 28, 2018.
that may not benefit the United States in the
long term. However, the OEWG simultaneously provides the United States with an opportunity to
and communications technology (ICT) standards. U.S.
engage with states that could be persuaded to embrace
values, interests, and security are strengthened when ICT
a more like-minded viewpoint on norms in cyberspace.
standards are developed and set with active American
In order to bring more states into the fold, the United
participation. Yet compared to its adversaries, the United
States should continue to enter all such forums to discuss
States is not participating as much or as effectively in
responsible state behavior with a diverse group of nations.
these forums, putting it at a distinct disadvantage. U.S.
adversaries are currently sending a wide range of experts
who are drawing on their technical depth, negotiating
In addition, the U.S. government should take a
capability, and commercial expertise to shape internamulti-stakeholder approach to strengthening norms.
tional ICT standards in their favor.
While the ultimate authority to establish rules for responsible state behavior should be left to states themselves,
non-state actors ideally should be included in a consulCongress should empower and sufficiently resource the
tative capacity whenever possible. Because entities in the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)—
private sector and other non-state actors own and operate
in alignment with the complementary recommendation
much of the internet’s infrastructure, their involvement
4.1.2, Expand and Support the National Institute of
adds potentially valuable information and technical
Standards and Technology Security Work—to facilitate
capabilities (e.g., taking down malicious infrastructure) to
robust and integrated U.S. participation from the federal
strengthen norms of behavior in cyberspace.
government, academia, professional societies, and industry
in forums setting ICT standards. To participate more effectively, the U.S. government should send not only technical
2.1.2 Engage Actively and Effectively in
and standards experts but also diplomats.
Forums Setting International Information and
Communications Technology Standards
Government and the private sector can work together to
The U.S. government should more actively and effectively
promote U.S. values in the face of standards that would
participate in forums setting international information

50

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

(State Department Photo/ Public Domain)

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS

otherwise advance authoritarian ideals. The proposed
National Cyber Director (NCD) should serve as the central coordination point among U.S.-based actors contributing to standards bodies. To preserve the integrity of the
standards process, each actor—public, private, academic,
and so on—must represent only their own opinion, but
the NCD can help align those opinions to advocate for
standards that promote a free and open internet. The
NCD should consider encouraging U.S. business leaders
to participate and collaborate in ICT standards forums
to ensure the unified promotion of the most technically
secure standards in the private sector.
Contributions to standards forums can be effective and
meaningful only when members trust that all are contributing technically sound proposals in good faith. The best
demonstration of good faith that the United States can
give is to implement at home the agreed-on international
standards. Accordingly, executive branch departments
and agencies should, as a matter of regular practice, seek
out and whenever practicable implement internationally agreed-on standards rather than those developed
domestically.

2.1.3 Improve Cyber Capacity Building and
Consolidate the Funding of Cyber Foreign
Assistance
The U.S. government should assist allied and partner countries and organizations to build their cyber
capacities. U.S. national security is improved if the
capacity of our allies and partners to prevent, manage,
and recover from cyberattacks is improved. Moreover,
U.S. adversaries are using U.S. partner countries as test
beds for cyber operations that could be used against the
United States in the future. Bolstering the capacity of
these partners helps stymie adversaries seeking to test
and refine cyber weapons. Capacity-building efforts
should involve the Department of State as well as the
United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), Department of Justice (DOJ), Department
of the Treasury, International Development Finance
Corporation (DFC), Department of Homeland

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Security (DHS), and other relevant U.S. government
entities.
Combating cybercrime, which is almost never an exclusively domestic issue, would particularly benefit from
building cyber capacity. Cooperation between countries
and agencies is critical to effectively combating the
threat. The U.S. government should facilitate additional
partnerships with foreign law enforcement agencies and
better incorporate interagency investigative teams within
the overall U.S. strategic approach. Partnerships, such as
that between the U.S. Secret Service, the Dutch National
High Tech Crime Unit, and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s (FBI) Five Eyes cyber task force, should be
fully supported and provided with additional resources.
In addition, the U.S. government should expand its
training programs for foreign law enforcement partners,
such as through the Department of State’s International
Law Enforcement Academy (ILEA). These types of
training programs dramatically enhance the capabilities
of indispensable partners and allow for the kind of joint
investigations necessary to combat a fundamentally
transnational adversary.
Congress should consolidate the Department of State’s
foreign assistance funding to facilitate these efforts. A
new funding line in the State, Foreign Operations, and
Related Programs (SFOPS) appropriations legislation
should be created specifically dedicated to building
cyber capacity. The creation of this line item would have
no initial impact on the Department of State’s budget,
as funding would be reallocated from other accounts.
However, Congress should also consider increasing the
budget for building cyber capacity, especially to countries
that are being targeted by our adversaries.

2.1.4 Improve International Tools for Law
Enforcement Activities in Cyberspace
Law enforcement tools like criminal indictments and
international extraditions contribute to layered cyber
deterrence by signaling the difference between responsible
and unacceptable behavior in cyberspace, thereby helping

51

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

to reinforce norms. Law enforcement activities also
provide fruitful ground on which to work with international partners and allies to hold adversaries accountable.
Improving the United States’ ability to support other
governments’ law enforcement efforts enhances the
overall effectiveness of norms in cyberspace.
Improve the MLAT/MLAA Process: Mutual Legal
Assistance Treaties (MLATs) and Mutual Legal Assistance
Agreements (MLAAs) are tools that enable U.S. law
enforcement to prosecute cybercriminals. Having a
streamlined MLAT/MLAA process assists with tasks such
as attribution and extradition. Stronger U.S. alliances
in cyberspace and more efficient MLATs/MLAAs help
reduce the number of safe havens from which malicious cyber actors can act with impunity. To make the
MLAT/MLAA process more efficient, Congress should
take several actions. It should provide DOJ’s Office
of International Affairs with administrative subpoena
authority, which would expedite MLAT/MLAA processing by bypassing the need to execute hundreds of
court orders to obtain basic subscriber information. In
addition, Congress should provide funding to the FBI to
help automate the execution of MLAT/MLAA-related
search warrants. In fiscal year 2019, the FBI executed 461
communication service provider (CSP) search warrants.
These warrant executions required reviewing and filtering
834 accounts and, in 95 cases, the translation of materials
from a total of 28 different languages.180
Increase the Number of FBI Cyber ALATs: Congress should
create and fund 12 additional FBI Cyber Assistant Legal
Attachés (ALATs) to facilitate intelligence sharing and
help coordinate joint cyber operations. There are currently 10 ALATs; increasing the total number to 22 will
help meet the required demand. These technically trained
agents can also assist foreign counterparts by demonstrating investigative best practices in cyber cases. ALATs’
overseas position gives them unique insight into emerging threats and the tactics, techniques, and procedures
of particular adversaries. Congress should also consider
increasing funding for other federal law enforcement

52

agencies to coordinate with foreign law enforcement on
cyber investigations.

2.1.5 Leverage Sanctions and Trade
Enforcement Actions
The U.S. government can better punish cyber aggressors
and signal U.S. intent toward potential attackers when it
leverages its tools of economic statecraft as a component
of a multipronged enforcement strategy. However, the
efficacy of sanctions depends heavily on a number of
factors, including their target and timeline, the degree
of international coordination, and the path to lifting
them. The European Union (EU) has already begun to
bolster its commitment to using sanctions to deter and
respond to cyberattacks through the 2019 EU cyber
sanctions regime, which includes banning violators from
traveling to the EU and freezing their assets.181 With this
framework in mind, the United States should join the
international community in strengthening its dedication
to using economic sanctions, when possible and appropriate, against those who conduct cyberattacks on the
U.S. electoral process and infrastructure.
Congress should codify into law Executive Order 13848,
“Executive Order on Imposing Certain Sanctions in
the Event of Foreign Interference in a United States
Election.” Congress has already codified Executive
Order 13694, “Blocking the Property of Certain Persons
Engaging in Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled
Activities,” as a part of the Countering America’s
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).
Furthermore, in cases dealing with unfair trade practices
carried out via cyber means, the Office of the United States
Trade Representative should consider taking action under
Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, and the Department
of Commerce should consider using the Entity List—part
of the Export Administration Regulations—to impose further requirements. Special care should be taken to ensure
that designation under Section 301 is not used in response
to cases unrelated to trade.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS

2.1.6 Improve Attribution Analysis and the
Attribution-Decision Rubric
Accurate and timely attribution of a cyber incident
enables U.S. leaders to make the most informed decisions to protect the country through consideration of
appropriate response actions in order to enforce norms of
accountability in cyberspace.
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence
(ODNI), in partnership with the private sector through
DHS and the FBI, should improve attribution analysis. This can be achieved by (1) standardizing ODNI’s
Attribution Guidelines and assessment timeline; (2)
establishing an attribution analysis working group (not
standing but designated), which should include key
private-sector analysis and data to accelerate the federal
government’s response; and (3) advancing analytic
capabilities by applying emerging technologies and
diversifying data sources to overcome evolving technical challenges. Recommendation 1.4.1, “Codify and
Strengthen the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration
Center,” further supports this recommendation by
strengthening the aggregation and deconfliction entity for
assessing attribution.
In addition, the National Security Council and the
NCD, in consultation with the ODNI, should develop
an attribution-decision rubric. The purpose of the rubric
is to clarify available responses that should be made based
on attribution at some minimally required level of confidence. The NSC should appoint an entity to implement
the rubric. Even when a cyber incident lacks high-confidence attribution, the rubric will enable the U.S. government to reduce vulnerabilities and take appropriate
actions by matching attribution levels to deliverable
non-military instruments of state power. When necessary,
the U.S. government must be comfortable responding
with appropriate actions (i.e., policy decisions) without
requiring that a specific level of confidence be present.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

2.1.7 Reinvigorate Efforts to Develop Cyber
Confidence-Building Measures (CBMs)
The Department of State should reinvigorate the development and exercise of bilateral and multilateral cyber
confidence-building measures (CBMs). Cyber CBMs
are nonbinding, cooperative arrangements and actions
that reassure allies, signal adversaries, and demonstrate
intent, such as maintaining appropriate points of
contact for incident response and emergency hotlines.
Cyber CBMs can and should be implemented in concert with the updated National Cyber Strategy. In their
current format, CBMs can be used to mitigate risks that
relationships between cyber actors will become unstable,
thereby helping to avoid crises. Over time, CBMs can
also be used as a foundation for the future development
of arms-control regimes. Moreover, CBMs can help
bolster the development of norms. Recommendation
1.1.1, “Develop a Multitiered Signaling Strategy,” is an
example of how a CBM can be applied, by providing
clarity to adversaries, partners, and allies on how the
United States intends to act.
The Department of State should continue to develop
and implement both regional and global cyber CBMs,
together with non-state stakeholders such as private-sector entities.182 Specifically, the Department of
State should build on the CBMs enumerated in the
2015 Report of the UN GGE and Decision Document
No. 1202 (2016) of the OSCE in the Field of
Information and Telecommunications in the Context
of International Security.183 The U.S. government
should actively implement CBMs, coordinated by the
National Cyber Director, that account for the unique
attributes and dynamics of the cyber domain. These
CBMs can help actors share information, mitigate
uncertainty, create lines of communication that can
restrain unwanted escalation in emergencies and crises,
and facilitate crisis management, thereby promoting
stability between states.

53

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

R

esilience—the capacity to withstand and quickly
recover from attacks that could compel, deter,
or otherwise shape U.S. behavior—is a foundational
element of layered cyber deterrence, ensuring that critical
functions and the full extent of U.S. power remain available in peacetime and are preserved in crisis. It denies
adversaries benefits by reducing the chances that their
attacks can achieve strategic objectives or have strategic
consequences.184 National security, economic security,
public health and safety, and the integrity of our political
system are all elements of national strength and stability
that must be preserved. However, as the United States
has become more technologically advanced, the systems
and assets—or critical infrastructure—that support these
elements of national power have come under increasing
risk of cyberattack, placing their continued function in
jeopardy.185 To enhance the nation’s overall resilience, this
pillar focuses on three strategic objectives.

First, national resilience efforts fundamentally depend on
the ability of the United States to accurately and comprehensively understand, assess, and manage risk across the
critical infrastructure ecosystem.186 To better understand
risk at a national level, the United States should clarify
and codify the roles played by sector-specific agencies
and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
in working together and with the private sector to
gather and assess risk information on an ongoing basis.
However, addressing national risk cannot stop there. The
U.S. government must also institutionalize and routinize
a process to regularly build an understanding of how the
risks of different sectors come together and to translate
this understanding into a multiyear strategy, priorities,
and a budget for U.S. government and private-sector
efforts. By understanding, assessing, and managing

54

national risk, the United States will be in a better position
to diminish both the incidences and the consequences
of attempts by adversaries to erode the integrity of the
elements of America’s national strength.
Second, national resilience requires sufficient national
capacity and preparedness to respond to and recover from
attacks when they do happen, ensuring continuity of
critical functions where possible and quickly restarting
where not. The United States has well-established mechanisms and processes to respond to physical and natural
disasters. The same rigor has not yet been applied to
understanding and responding to cyber states of distress
and disasters. Doing so requires planning and exercising
to guarantee that the U.S. government and private sector
are coordinated in response to significant and potentially
catastrophic cyber incidents. It also means ensuring
that the U.S. government is equipped with the requisite
authorities, capabilities, and resources to meaningfully
aid in response and recovery should the time come that
they are required.
Third, Americans’ trust in the political system, and in the
democratic institutions that underpin it, remains a foundational element of national resilience. Our recent past has
shown that our democratic institutions represent a soft and
attractive target for malicious actors seeking to undermine the American peoples’ trust in the integrity of our
democracy. Building a truly resilient America in the face of
growing cyber threats means ensuring that the cornerstones
of our democracy are impervious to these threats. To do
so, we must update the way we both approach the security
of our election systems and campaigns and harden the
American people against the malign influence of adversaries who wish to subvert them.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #1:

UNDERSTAND, ASSESS, AND MANAGE NATIONAL RISK
The U.S. government should build the necessary structures and processes to continuously understand,
assess, and manage national-level cyber risk across the critical infrastructure ecosystem. Owners and
operators of critical infrastructure are not always fully aware of the risk they inherit, the risk they own, the
risk they pass on, and, more relevant to the federal government, the risk they bear for national security,
economic security, and public health and safety. Creating an accurate picture of “national risk” has thus far
eluded the U.S. government and the private sector working independently, and the United States should
focus on strengthening the public-private mechanisms for both understanding and mitigating national risk
in areas where such mitigation is most critical.

Key Recommendation
3.1 Congress should codify responsibilities and ensure sufficient resources for the Cybersecurity
and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and sector-specific agencies (SSAs) in the identification,
assessment, and management of national and sector-specific risk.
Led by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(CISA), critical infrastructure resilience and national
risk management rely on a complex system of partnerships with the private sector and a number of agencies
across the federal government. While empowering
CISA is a critical step in building national resilience,
the executive branch must also take steps to strengthen
sector-specific agencies (SSAs). As defined in Presidential
Policy Directive 21, SSAs manage much of the day-today engagement between the federal government and
private-sector entities within a given critical infrastructure sector. National resilience requires that each of
these agencies is able to identify, assess, and support the
private sector in managing risks within the sector under
its charge and to contribute to managing risks at the
national level, where cross-sector risks—both physical
and cyber—can be identified and controlled over time.
However, there are significant imbalances and inconsistencies in both the capacity and the willingness of these
agencies to manage sector-specific risks and participate in
government-wide efforts. In addition, the lack of clarity
and consistency concerning the responsibilities and

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

requirements for these agencies, both within their sectors
and in their relations with CISA, continues to cause confusion, redundancy, and gaps in resilience efforts. It also
confounds the efforts of Congress, or overseeing departments and agencies, to hold these agencies accountable.
These features reveal significant limitations in the U.S.
government’s ability to comprehensively understand and
mitigate national risk.
Congress should codify SSAs into law as “Sector Risk
Management Agencies”; establish responsibilities and
requirements for identifying, assessing, and assisting in
managing risk for the critical infrastructure sectors under
their purview; and appropriate the respective agency’s
funds necessary to carry out these responsibilities.187 As
a corresponding measure, Congress should recognize
CISA’s lead role in national risk management and the
functions of the National Risk Management Center.
This legislation should clarify roles and responsibilities
between these agencies assisting in managing sector-specific risks and CISA. To alleviate the issue of inconsistent
maturity, this codification should provide the resources
necessary for both agencies assisting in managing

55

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

sector-specific risks and CISA to implement their responsibilities for their sectors and act as mature, steadfast
partners in overall national resilience efforts. The ability
of the federal government to scale up its efforts and
advance a deeper collaboration with the private sector
on cybersecurity and resilience fundamentally depends
on guiding SSAs to maturity, ensuring their consistency
across sectors, and empowering them to represent their
sectors and fully integrate with national risk management
efforts led by CISA, with the supporting efforts of the
U.S. intelligence community.
Designation of Sector Risk Management Agencies: As part
of this codification, Congress should direct the U.S.
government, in a process led by DHS, to review the
current critical infrastructure model, propose revisions
based on an updated understanding of risk, and revise
the National Infrastructure Protection Plan in accordance
with proposed changes. The updated model should form
the basis for one or more presidential determinations that
designate a primary Sector Risk Management Agency
aligned with each sector. This presidential determination
would act as the mechanism by which newly codified
responsibilities and authorities are assigned or delegated
to departments and agencies with commensurate funds to
fulfill those duties.
Risk Identification and Assessment: In a process led by
CISA and codified in a “National Risk Management
Cycle” (recommendation 3.1.1), Sector Risk
Management Agencies should have the responsibility
and be empowered to identify and assess risk within their
critical infrastructure sectors, both to inform their own
programs and to participate in the more general work
of CISA’s cross-sector risk identification and assessment.
Congress should ensure that the information necessary to
inform this process, such as common interdependencies
and vulnerabilities, is protected from public disclosure.
Intelligence Needs Identification and Assessment: In a process
led by the Office of Director of National Intelligence and
CISA, as suggested in recommendation 5.1.1, Sector Risk

56

Management Agencies should have the responsibility and
be empowered to work with industry, including sector-coordinating councils, and information sharing and analysis
centers to identify common intelligence gaps and areas of
critical risk or vulnerability so that the intelligence community can provide actionable, focused intelligence.
Sector Risk Management Agency Audit and Scorecard:
Congress should additionally direct the Office of
Management and Budget, in coordination with CISA,
to establish a process to evaluate the performance of each
Sector Risk Management Agency in driving down the
risk in its respective sector. This assessment will include,
but not be limited to, how each agency implements the
“Critical Infrastructure Resilience Strategy” (described
in recommendation 3.1.1) and participates in activities
prescribed by CISA in the National Risk Management
Cycle. This assessment should include the perspective of
the private sector and sector-coordinating councils, and
be made available to Congress yearly. Each agency head
will be responsible for providing a report on the adequacy
and effectiveness of its programs and activities in fulfilling
the strategy and priorities, as well as any other relevant
information requested by the Directors of the Office of
Management and Budget and CISA.
Cyber Incident Response, Management, and Coordination:
Government agencies mounting incident response and
technical assistance efforts, such as CISA, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and, within its authority,
the Department of Defense (DoD), should be required
to notify Sector Risk Management Agencies when cyber
incidents affect an entity within their sector, unless
precluded from doing so by a legal constraint or by considerations of operational sensitivity. This process ensures
that such efforts can benefit from the unique insight and
expertise that Sector Risk Management Agencies provide,
as well as ensure that each Sector Risk Management
Agency maintains situational awareness of its sector. This
requirement should be protected from public disclosure,
with penalties associated with inappropriate disclosure to
regulatory or non-federal entities.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

Centralized Programmatic Support to Sector-Specific
Agencies: Congress should, in coordination with the
Office of Management and Budget and relevant departments and agencies, appropriate funds for shared-service programs to enable CISA to support Sector Risk
Management Agencies. These would include shared
services, common programs, and foundational tools used
by Sector Risk Management Agencies and provided or
managed by CISA. This approach will help enable these
agencies in their mission, provide consistent private sector–focused programs and approaches across the federal
government, reduce redundancy, and ensure that certain
services, like information sharing, can benefit from
economies of scale and best practices.

Enabling Recommendations
3.1.1 Establish a Five-Year National Risk
Management Cycle Culminating in a Critical
Infrastructure Resilience Strategy
Critical infrastructure resilience requires the United States
to be able to develop a comprehensive understanding
of national risk and to translate that understanding into
resources to manage or minimize that risk over time.
These activities should be cyclical, mutually supporting,
and routinely exercised, so that the government gains an
ever-evolving understanding of a shifting risk landscape
and adjusts its programs and priorities to follow suit.
While the U.S. government has made great strides at
understanding national risk by concentrating on how
national critical functions work and applying that understanding to its priorities and programs, significant limitations remain. The U.S. government still lacks rigorous,
codified, and routinely exercised processes for identifying,
assessing, and prioritizing critical infrastructure risks
across the federal government and between the public
and private sectors. In areas where critical infrastructure
risks have been identified, risk management efforts have
been further limited by annual funding of programs
rather than the stable, multiyear funding necessary to
fully minimize that risk over time.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

To address this shortcoming, Congress should direct
the executive branch to establish a five-year National
Risk Management Cycle that culminates in a Critical
Infrastructure Resilience Strategy. This strategy would
then be implemented, and adjusted as necessary, in the
following five-year cycle. Through this five-year risk management cycle, the federal government would identify
and assess national risk, implement plans for managing or
mitigating that risk, and update national critical functions. Specifically:
• Congress should direct the executive branch to
conduct an initial two-year risk identification
and assessment of critical infrastructure based on
currently defined national critical functions. The
results would inform the first Critical Infrastructure
Resilience Strategy, to be delivered in the initial two
years and every five years thereafter.
• Congress should also direct the executive branch
to establish processes and procedures to establish a
five-year National Risk Management Cycle, including defining procedures for identifying, assessing,
and prioritizing risks and translating this understanding into strategy, budget, and programmatic
priorities for relevant departments and agencies.
These processes and procedures should be made in
consultation with private industries, posted publicly
and made available for public comment, and be
adaptive and iterative to account for lessons learned
from previous cycles.
• Risk identification and assessments formed in the
cycle should directly inform and culminate in a
Critical Infrastructure Resilience Strategy, which
will set programmatic and budgetary priorities to be
implemented in the following five-year National Risk
Management Cycle.
• These activities should provide quantitative and
qualitative data to inform the National Cybersecurity
Assistance Fund (recommendation 3.1.2),
Continuity of the Economy planning (recommendation 3.2), and the U.S. government’s resilience
and preparedness programs and should be informed,

57

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

guided, and updated through regular exercises, such
as the Biennial National Cyber Tabletop Exercise
(recommendation 3.3.5).

3.1.2 Establish a National Cybersecurity
Assistance Fund to Ensure Consistent and
Timely Funding for Initiatives That Underpin
National Resilience
While the Homeland Security Grant Program and
resourcing for national preparedness under the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are well-established,188 the U.S. government has no equivalent for
cybersecurity preparation or prevention. The lack of a
consistent, resourced fund for investing in resilience in
key areas inhibits the U.S. government from conveying
its understanding of risk into strategy, planning, and
action in furtherance of core objectives for the security
and resilience of critical infrastructure.
To address this shortcoming, Congress should pass a
law establishing a National Cybersecurity Assistance
Fund for projects and programs aimed at systematically
increasing the resilience of public and private entities,
thereby increasing the overall resilience of the United
States. Grant programs organized under this fund would
be, depending on purpose, available to public or private
entities.

58

• The fund should be used only for solutions, projects,
and programs for which (1) there is a clearly defined,
critical risk to be mitigated, (2) market forces do not
provide sufficient private-sector incentives to mitigate the risk without government investment, and
(3) there is clear federal need, role, and responsibility
to mitigate the risk.
• The fund would be administered by FEMA and
directed by CISA in coordination with Sector Risk
Management Agencies, and would be authorized and
appropriated for 10 years.
• DHS would be required to submit a yearly report
updating Congress on new programs established
under the fund and on the progress of existing
programs.
• The fund should have sufficient flexibility to be used
in instances in which timely resilience or security
investment would neutralize or substantially mitigate
an overriding, serious threat to national security,
economic security, or public health and safety.
• Grants provided to state, local, tribal, and territorial
(SLTT) entities under this fund should require 10
percent matching funds in the first year of its establishment, to be increased every subsequent year by 10
percent until 50 percent matching funds are required.
Grants would require 50 percent matching funds
every year thereafter to minimize moral hazard.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #2:

ENSURE NATIONAL CAPACITY TO RESPOND TO AND RECOVER
FROM A SIGNIFICANT CYBER INCIDENT
The United States should establish a national capacity to respond to and recover from a significant cyber
event, and provide the government with the authorities necessary to ensure economic continuity and
cyber resilience—in partnership with the owners and operators of public- and private-sector critical
infrastructure. National resilience requires the nation to be sufficiently prepared to respond to and recover
from attacks, sustain critical functions even under degraded conditions, and, in some cases, restart critical
functionality after disruption—man-made or not. While the U.S. government maintains robust processes
and mechanisms to respond to and recover from physical disasters or national emergencies through
Continuity of Operations, Continuity of Government, and FEMA operations, there are gaps in other
areas. The 2017 National Security Strategy identifies economic security as national security, but there are
no comparably robust continuity mechanisms and planning efforts in place to ensure a rapid restart and
recovery of the national economy in the event of a truly catastrophic disruption. In addition, the U.S.
government faces both institutional and resource limitations in its ability to assist the private sector and
SLTT governments in the prevention of, response to, and recovery from a significant cyber incident that
falls below the level that would elicit an emergency declaration.

Key Recommendation
3.2 Congress should direct the executive branch to develop and maintain Continuity of the
Economy planning in consultation with the private sector to ensure the continuous operation of
critical functions of the economy in the event of a significant cyber disruption.
While Continuity of Operations and Continuity of
Government have long been cornerstones of government
contingency planning, no equivalent effort exists to ensure
the rapid restart and recovery of the U.S. economy after
a major disruption.189 Such disruptions could include an
attack on major stock exchanges, an electronic-magnetic
pulse event, a regional disruption of power, or any other
attack that compromises the national conveyance of goods
or services. In developing and conducting Continuity of
the Economy planning, the United States should focus
its efforts on maintaining the continuity of national- or
international-level distribution or exchange of goods and
services, on which U.S. economic strength and public
confidence are founded. While disruption of these regional
or local mechanisms may have consequences of their own,
existing resilience and recovery efforts can often account

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

for, respond to, and mitigate localized effects. However,
disruption of upstream, national-level mechanisms in
many sectors—including bulk power distribution, stock
exchanges, wholesale payments, medicine, telecommunications, and trade or logistics—would have cascading
effects downstream, creating further failures at regional
and local levels and causing shortages that would hamper
U.S. response, recovery, and mobilization efforts. Should
a significant cyber event occur during wartime, military
readiness and mobilization would be significantly hindered. Moreover, long-term disruptions to core economic
functions would undermine the United States’ international standing, credibility, and appeal in an increasingly
competitive global marketplace. Creating and exercising a
Continuity of the Economy plan will serve as a deterrent
to adversaries by demonstrating that the United States

59

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

has the wherewithal to respond and remain resilient to a
significant cyberattack.
Congress should direct the executive branch to develop
and maintain Continuity of the Economy planning to
ensure continuous operation of critical functions of the
economy in the event of a significant cyber disruption.
The planning process should include the Department of
Homeland Security, Department of Defense, Department
of Commerce, Department of the Treasury, Department
of Energy, and any other departments or agencies as
determined by the President. The executive branch should
report back to Congress on the status of its planning effort
within one year and provide updates to Congress on a
yearly basis thereafter. As part of the planning process,
the executive branch should determine any additional
authorities or resources that would be required to implement plans in the case of a disaster or for the establishment
of programs that support and maintain department
and agency planning capabilities for Continuity of the
Economy efforts. In forming or updating Continuity of
the Economy planning, the executive branch should draw
on insights from the National Risk Management Cycle
and planning should inform the Critical Infrastructure
Resilience Strategy (recommendation 3.1.1).
Analyze National Critical Functions: A Continuity of the
Economy plan should focus on the national-level distribution of goods and services necessary for the reliable
economic functioning of the United States. Leveraging
work on the national critical functions already in development, the plan should outline the key private-sector
entities that constitute or are integral to these distribution
mechanisms and bear primary responsibility in maintaining and operating them for sectors, regions, or the
economy as a whole. These key mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the following:
• Bulk power and electric distribution systems.
• National or international financial exchanges, including wholesale payments, stocks, monetary exchanges,
and payment clearing and settlement systems.
• National or international communications networks,
data hosting, and cloud services.

60

• Interstate oil and natural gas pipelines.
• National-level trade and logistics, including maritime
shipping, interstate railways, and airline cargo.
Prioritize Response and Recovery: The plan should establish a
framework for rapidly restarting and recovering core functions in a crisis. Using a schema for setting priorities similar
to those used for Continuity of Operations and Continuity
of Government, the plan should give precedence to functions whose disruption could cause catastrophic economic
loss, lead to runaway loss of public confidence, imperil
human life on a national scale, or undermine response,
recovery, or mobilization efforts in a crisis. The plan should
also outline standard operating procedures for plan activation, execution, and implementation.
Identify Areas for Investments in Resilience: Continuity of
the Economy planning should identify areas where risk of
disruption is so catastrophic that establishment of secure,
separate critical systems, including analog or retro systems,
would be an effective use of resources. Continuity of the
Economy planning should further review the feasibility of
“disconnecting,” or air gapping, critical services or specific
industrial control networks if national security concerns
overwhelm the need for internet connectivity. Finally, this
work should emphasize the importance of developing plans
to mitigate the consequences of successful cyberattacks.
Identify Areas for Preserving Data: Continuity of the
Economy planning should identify critical segments
of the economy where particular data, preserved in a
protected, verified, and uncorrupted format, would be
required to quickly restart the economy in the face of
disruption or significant cyberattack. The United States
should further explore options to store backup, protected
data across borders with allies or partners, particularly in
areas where economic disruption in either country could
have cascading effects on the global economy.
Identify Key Materials, Goods, and Services: The executive
branch should consider whether to include a list of
raw materials, industrial goods, and key services whose
absence would significantly undermine the ability of

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

the United States to avoid or recover from an economic
collapse and a recommendation as to whether the United
States should maintain a strategic reserve of those materials, goods, and services.
Extend Credit: The executive branch should also consider mechanisms, when presented with a declaration
of national emergency by the President, to ensure the
extension of credit to key participants in the national
economy when such credit would be necessary to avoid
catastrophic economic collapse or would allow the recovery from such a collapse. Such mechanisms could include
authorizing the Department of the Treasury or the
Federal Open Market Committee to extend the credit of
the United States to these entities for their rapid recovery.

Expand Education and Readiness of the General Public:
By its very nature, Continuity of the Economy planning will prioritize the most essential functions of our
country—and their locales—both to enable a rapid
recovery from a devastating cyberattack and to preserve
the strength and will to quickly punish the attacker.
Many industries will not be included in this planning,
and most citizens will not be able to rely on government assistance in the period following such an attack.
But as is also true of natural disaster preparedness, the
American people do not need to be helpless. DHS and
other relevant agencies should expand citizen preparedness efforts and public awareness mechanisms to be
ready for such an event.

Key Recommendation
3.3 Congress should codify a “Cyber State of Distress” tied to a “Cyber Response and Recovery
Fund” to ensure sufficient resources and capacity to respond to significant cyber incidents.
Though FEMA mechanisms may be available to aid
response to and recovery from a cyber incident that
approaches the level of a natural disaster, few cyber
incidents are likely to cross that threshold.190 Current
mechanisms for cyber incident response, outlined under
Presidential Policy Directive 41 and detailed in the
National Cyber Incident Response Plan, do not empower
federal agencies with additional authority, funding, or
resources to respond to or aid non-federal entities even
when a “significant cyber incident” designation has been
made. The absence of such empowerment remains a key
check on the U.S. government’s ability to ensure appropriate capacity, support, and organization in its response
to cyber incidents.
To address this shortcoming, Congress should pass a law
codifying a “Cyber State of Distress”—a federal declaration
that would trigger the availability of additional resources
through a “Cyber Response and Recovery Fund”—to assist
SLTT governments and the private sector beyond what

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

is available through conventional technical assistance and
cyber incident response programs. The declaration would
be used exclusively for responding to, or preemptively
preparing for, cyber incidents whose significance is above
“routine” but below what would trigger an emergency
declaration and for incidents that exceed or are expected
to exceed the capacity of federal civilian authorities to
effectively support critical infrastructure in response and
recovery. The fund would be used to augment or scale up
government technical assistance and incident response
efforts in support of public and private critical infrastructure. A key provision is the inclusion of preemptive action
and preparation, which accounts for instances when the
federal government has a reasonable expectation that a
significant cyber incident is likely to occur and preemptive
action and preparation would reduce potential consequences of disruption or compromise.
Threshold for State of Distress Declaration: The declaration
should be made in response to or in anticipation of a

61

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

“significant cyber incident,” or one that is (or group of
related cyber incidents that together are) likely to result
in demonstrable harm to the national security interests,
foreign relations, or economy of the United States or to
the public confidence, civil liberties, or public health and
safety of the American people. Such cyber incidents could
include a coordinated campaign of multiple, individual
incidents occurring over time that are not significant on
their own but collectively yield significant consequences. A
major consideration for making this declaration should be
when an incident or series of incidents exceeds the capacity
of civil authorities to effectively aid the private sector and
SLTT in preparation, response, or recovery.
Incident Response Coordination and Management: The declaration would invoke current authority that establishes

the Secretary of Homeland Security as principal federal
official responsible for coordinating incident response,
recovery, and management efforts on behalf of the entire
federal government. In addition to covering response and
recovery efforts, this coordination would need to account
for, and protect, law enforcement interests, including
the preservation of forensic data necessary to attribute
the attack and enable subsequent investigations by law
enforcement agencies. This coordination role should not
supersede other existing department and agency authorities or direct law enforcement activity.
Disbursement of a Cyber Response and Recovery Fund:
Congress should establish and appropriate funds to maintain a Cyber Response and Recovery Fund, administered by
FEMA and directed by CISA. Disbursement would be

Is Our Water Supply (Cyber) Secure?
Every American, every day, depends on a supply of clean water. Yet most Americans would be surprised to learn that even
though water is critical in our daily lives, and even though our water supply is known to be a target for malign actors, water
utilities remain largely ill-prepared to defend their networks from cyber-enabled disruption.191
The U.S. water supply is operated by nearly 70,000 utilities192 that are turning to digital networks to manage real-world physical
processes critical to water treatment and distribution—but these utilities are approaching this transition with dramatic variations in capacity and sophistication. Like our electoral system, this distributed network can provide a measure of resilience.
Also like our electoral system, it can limit the effectiveness of federal action and slow the deployment of best practices or the
responsible incorporation of secure technologies. Gaps in utilities’ network configurations, insecure remote access systems,
and outdated training regimes are just a few of the vectors through which Americans’ water infrastructure is vulnerable to
cyber-enabled exploitation.193 Malign actors have already attempted to breach water infrastructure systems, and they could
eventually exploit these vulnerabilities to disrupt or contaminate the American water supply.194
Compounding these problems, municipal utilities often lack the resources or capacity to address these weaknesses. In partnership with the Department of Homeland Security, federal sector-specific agencies (SSAs) and state and local governments
are currently responsible for managing and securing American utilities. For water, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
is the principal federal agency responsible for cyber risk management.195 In practice, however, SSA responsibilities are unclear,
and that uncertainty contributes to insufficient coordination between the EPA and other stakeholders in water utilities’ security,
as well as to cybersecurity funding requests that lack the resources and buy-in necessary for success.
These shortcomings imperil the cybersecurity that is vital to the water infrastructure, which in turn is vital to our lives. Codifying
SSA responsibilities, ensuring that SSAs such as the EPA conduct their risk management assignments effectively, and better
enabling state and local governments are all critical steps toward improving the capacity of water utilities to prevent and
mitigate the growing threats they face from cyberspace.

62

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

triggered when a Cyber State of Distress is declared. The
funds would not be used for direct financial assistance to
affected entities but to increase, scale up, or augment the
capabilities of federal civil authorities to provide technical
assistance and incident response. This would include
enabling standby contracts with private-sector cybersecurity
services or incident responders and funding DoD personnel
operating under Defense Support to Civil Authorities.

Enabling Recommendations
3.3.1 Designate Responsibilities for
Cybersecurity Services under the Defense
Production Act
The Defense Production Act provides the U.S. government with expansive authorities to prioritize resources
in the event of a natural or man-made disaster, military
conflict, or act of terrorism within the United States.
However, the most recent executive order pertaining to
the act, Executive Order 13603, neither accounts for nor
designates responsibilities for “cybersecurity services,”
including private-sector incident response. These authorities can be better leveraged to provide a more optimal
allocation of resources to ensure sufficient capacity for
protection against, response to, and recovery from a significant cyber incident. This would empower the United
States to better understand and allocate resources for private-sector reserve capacity and procure standby contracts
that could be triggered by a significant cyber incident
or by an incident that exceeds the federal government’s
capacity to respond.
To take full advantage of the Defense Production Act for
cybersecurity issues, the President should issue or amend
an executive order that prioritizes and designates responsibility for “cybersecurity services.” This would enhance
the U.S. government’s ability to rapidly mobilize the
private sector in response to a significant cyber incident.
This order should ensure that the U.S. government makes
all necessary preparations to understand and address gaps
in private-sector incident response capacity and prioritization in assisting critical infrastructure in responding to
and recovering from a significant cyber incident.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

• The executive order should designate DHS as the lead
agency to identify cybersecurity-related services that
are essential to national security and assess the capacity
of these services to support national security needs.
• Under Title VII of the Defense Production Act, the
U.S. government should convene the cybersecurity
incident response industry to understand the full
capacity of their services in steady-state as compared
to the capacity that would be required for significant
cyber incidents and catastrophic scenarios that have
real-world consequences.
• Using this information, the U.S. government can
procure standby contracts with cybersecurity incident
responders under Title III of the Defense Production
Act, which would be triggered for additional assistance
in cyber response and recovery efforts in response to a
significant or catastrophic cyber incident.

3.3.2 Clarify Liability for Federally Directed
Mitigation, Response, and Recovery Efforts
If the United States were to suffer a significant cyber incident, the federal government would undoubtedly require
the assistance of private-sector partners in response and
recovery. Existing laws to facilitate these activities, such as
the Defense Production Act and Federal Power Act, are
limited in their ability to provide reliable liability protections for private-sector entities or public utilities that take
action, or refrain from taking action, at the direction of
the federal government. Because of this lack of protection, private-sector entities or public utilities fearing legal
liability and lawsuits may be reluctant to cooperate with
the government.
To address this concern, Congress should pass a law
specifying that entities taking, or refraining from taking,
action at the duly authorized direction of any agency
head, or any other federal official authorized by law,
should be insulated from legal liability. Covered actions
should include any request or order by relevant federal
agencies issued to protect against or respond to an
emergency or threat relating to a cybersecurity incident
impacting national security.

63

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

3.3.3 Improve and Expand Planning Capacity
and Readiness for Cyber Incident Response
and Recovery Efforts
Prior planning is critical for government readiness in
responding to and recovering from a significant cyber
event. Congress should increase planning capacity
within DHS to enable the preparation, review, and
updating of key planning documents, standard operating procedures, standby contracts, and nondisclosure
agreements necessary for putting into operation plans
for cyber incident response and recovery. This planning
should allow for immediate execution of response plans
and mechanisms during a crisis; take into account
national, regional, and SLTT implications; and incorporate and empower Cyber State of Distress declarations,
the Cyber Response and Recovery Fund (recommendation 3.3), and Continuity of the Economy planning
(recommendation 3.2). Planning should encompass
entities that are critical to response and recovery efforts
(e.g., private-sector entities, sector-specific agencies,
SLTT governments, and international partners).196
These planning efforts should also include the following
steps:
• The federal government should revise the National
Cyber Incident Response Plan (NCIRP)—the plan
that details how federal, SLTT, and private entities
should respond to and recover from significant cyber
incidents impacting critical infrastructure197—by
adding scenario-specific and sector-specific annexes
drafted together with sector-specific agencies and
Sector Coordinating Councils.
• The annexes of the NCIRP should account for
options to mobilize additional resources to augment
the government’s response, including private-sector incident responders, the DoD under Defense
Support to Civil Authorities, the National Guard,
and other SLTT assets.
• Planning efforts should be integrated and interoperable with existing emergency response and disaster
recovery mechanisms and programs operated by
federal and SLTT entities.

64

3.3.4 Expand Coordinated Cyber Exercises,
Gaming, and Simulation
Preparedness planning leads to defined response mechanisms, public awareness, and improved response. In
practice, however, plans can be rendered ineffective by
unforeseen challenges and limitations.198 Exercises build
understanding of how complex systems will react in a
time of disruption or crisis, building cohesion among disparate entities coordinating the response and promoting
unity of effort that can translate to seamless integration
when an incident does occur.
Congress should support and fund FEMA and CISA in
implementing expanded and coordinated cross-sector
cyber exercises, gaming, and simulation, as well as sector-specific agencies in smaller, sector-specific exercises.
The existing cohort of exercises, including GridEx,199
Hamilton,200 and Cyber Storm,201 cover a portion of
what is necessary for overall national cybersecurity, but
they should be enhanced and expanded to include joint
exercises among the private sector, the federal government, SLTT entities, and, when and where possible,
international partners. These exercises should also be used
as the primary mechanism by which the U.S. government
exercises Continuity of the Economy planning. Such
exercises should also emphasize the importance of ensuring resilient communications among key stakeholders
and continuous engagement with the general public.

3.3.5 Establish a Biennial National Cyber
Tabletop Exercise
Exercises that account for and incorporate all elements
of national power are critical both in demonstrating and
ensuring the United States’ ability to respond to and
recover from cyber disruption and in reducing adversaries’ confidence that attacks are able to achieve strategic
objectives and shape U.S. behavior. While various departments and agencies in the U.S. government regularly
conduct exercises on cyber incident response, the United
States lacks a persistent senior-level exercise that incorporates the whole-of-government and whole-of-nation
approach necessary for effective response and recovery.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Congress therefore should direct the U.S.
government to plan and execute on a
biennial basis a national-level cyber tabletop exercise that involves senior leaders
from the executive branch, Congress,
state governments, and the private sector,
as well as international partners, where
appropriate.
• This “National Cyber Tabletop
Exercise” should be organized and
led by the National Cyber Director
(recommendation 1.3) with the support of the DHS, FBI, and DoD,
in coordination with sector-specific
agencies, state governments, and
private-sector partners.
• The exercise should be used as an
Army National Guard personnel analyze network traffic during a Cyber Shield
opportunity to operationalize,
19 training week class at Camp Atterbury, Ind. April 7, 2019. As the nation’s
troubleshoot, and inform preparedlargest unclassified cyber defense training exercise, Cyber Shield provides
ness programs such as Continuity
participants with training on industry network infrastructure and cyber protection best practices.
of the Economy planning and to
test the effectiveness of response and
recovery measures such as the Cyber
about what activities the National Guard can conduct and
State of Distress and the Cyber Response
be reimbursed for with federal funding.203 In addition,
and Recovery Fund.
it is unclear how state cyber incident response forces,
• The exercise should also be used as an opportunity
including the National Guard in state active-duty status,
to improve, inform, and guide resilience measures,
would integrate with federal personnel and processes when
such as the National Cybersecurity Assistance Fund
responding to a significant cyber incident, and current fed(recommendation 3.1.2) and other efforts that fall
eral cyber incident response planning does not sufficiently
within the National Risk Management Cycle and the
account for or integrate the role of the National Guard.
National Critical Infrastructure Resilience Strategy
• Congress should direct DoD to update existing
(recommendation 3.1.1).
policies to consider National Guard activities that
could be performed and reimbursed under Title 32
3.3.6 Clarify the Cyber Capabilities and
of the U.S. Code.204
Strengthen the Interoperability of the
• The National Guard Bureau should promulgate
National Guard
guidance to its constituent cyber units on CISA’s and
States have increasingly relied on National Guard units
the FBI’s cyber roles and responsibilities, the agencies’
under state active duty and Title 32 of the U.S. Code to
local presence and capabilities, ways to collaborate
prepare for, respond to, and recover from cybersecurity
202
during times of stability (e.g., through local multiaincidents that overwhelm state and local assets. While
gency task forces and information-sharing groups),
Title 32 has been interpreted to allow for these activities,
and incident response planning and exercises.
Department of Defense guidelines leave ambiguities

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

65

(U.S. Army National Guard / Photo by Staff Sgt. George Davis)

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

• The Department of Homeland Security should more
regularly integrate state cyber incident response
forces, including the National Guard in state activeduty status, as part of response and recovery planning and exercises and should define mechanisms to
ensure interoperability at times of crisis.

• The role of the National Guard should be assessed
and where appropriate incorporated into DHS and
executive branch cyber response planning efforts,
including the update to the National Cyber Incident
Response Plan and annexes.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #3:

ENSURE THE SECURITY OF OUR ELECTIONS AND RESILIENCE OF
OUR DEMOCRACY
The U.S. government should ensure the security of our elections and resilience of our democracy. Americans’
trust and confidence in their democratic system remain foundational elements of national resilience—and
an attractive target for malicious actors. The network of institutions, tools, and personnel that compose
our electoral system depend on connectivity and data, introducing new vectors to disrupt the U.S. political
system, including at and beyond the ballot box. The federal institutions charged with protecting our electoral
process require organizational reform, enduring funding streams, and modern mandates to ensure that
states and other partners in our political system, including political parties and campaigns, can improve and
maintain their cybersecurity capacity—and ensure that our electoral systems retain a verifiable, auditable
paper trail and paper-based balloting backbone. Going beyond elections, the U.S. government must also seek
to better understand and counter broader cyber threats targeting our democratic institutions.

Key Recommendation
3.4 Congress should improve the structure and enhance funding of the Election Assistance
Commission (EAC), enabling it to increase its operational capacity to support states and localities
in defense of the digital infrastructure underpinning federal elections—including ensuring the
widest possible employment of voter-verifiable, auditable, paper-based voting systems.
Trust is the lifeblood of American democracy. The
American people depend on government institutions, infrastructure, tools, and personnel to provide
a fair, open, and safe electoral system in which every
vote counts and election results reflect the will of the
American voter. The election system’s increasing reliance
on digital connectivity and data makes it vulnerable to
cyberattacks and cyber-enabled information operations
such as those seen in 2016 and 2018 and likely already
under way in 2020.205

66

Defending against attempts to undermine the American
people’s trust in their democracy requires improving institutional capacity at the federal, state, local, tribal, and
territorial levels and ensuring that our elections utilize
a voter-verifiable, auditable, paper-based voting system.
States need assistance in the form of enduring, targeted
funding to secure and maintain their election infrastructure, and the federal institutions administering such
assistance require additional funds and structural reform
to do so at the scale and speed of the threat. Election

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

Enhance Support to the Election Assistance Commission
to Carry Out Its Mission: The EAC suffers from chronic
funding shortages and requires a more robust staff to better
execute its responsibilities for improving SLTT election
cybersecurity capacity. Further, the EAC commissioners
require more technical expertise to enact urgent reforms
to protect the integrity of voting systems against malicious
cyber activity. By increasing the EAC’s capacity and adding
a limited but crucial “cybersecurity vote,” policymakers will
ensure that evolving threats to the integrity of our electoral
process are better understood and prioritized. Specifically:
• Congress should amend the Help America Vote Act
to create a fifth nonpartisan commissioner with an
established cybersecurity background in order to vote
exclusively on issues of or relating to cybersecurity.
• Congress should increase the EAC’s annual operating
budget to enable the hiring of new staff to improve
the performance of core responsibilities.
• The EAC should finalize and release its long-delayed
update to the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines
and increase the breadth and frequency of its recommendations and guidance concerning voting systems
and processes.
Streamline and Modernize Sustained Grant Funding for States
to Improve Election Systems: While Congress has appropriated funds to improve SLTT election systems, the episodic
nature of such funding has prevented states from making
plans that rely on it. Congressional grant funding for
election security should occur predictably and regularly, and
the EAC should disburse those funds and monitor their
expenditure. At a minimum, grant funds should be used to
ensure that states implement voter-verifiable and paperbased voting systems, as well as post-election audits. Funds
should also be used to ensure that election administrators

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

(U.S. Department of Energy)

officials should also be resourced with the tools and
expertise to develop and rehearse plans for Election Day
contingencies, including postponements and recounts.
Such contingency plans should be developed in consultation with federal cybersecurity experts from CISA and
should include clear criteria established well in advance.

The Vulnerability Assessment Team at Argonne National
Laboratory tests an electronic voting machine for security.

have sufficient provisional ballots for their eligible voting
populations to reduce or eliminate the effect of interference
with the voter registration rolls. The federal government has
a responsibility to resource its requirements, but states must
also share in their financial ownership of election administration. Specifically, the U.S. government should:
• Appropriate election security grants sufficient to
enable state, local, tribal, and territorial governments
to implement voter-verifiable, auditable voting
systems, including by replacing outdated voting
equipment, building local capacity, and adopting a
paper-based backbone.
• Sustain an annual grant appropriation to provide for
sufficient provisional ballots, the implementation of
post-election audits, and the ongoing maintenance of
systems into the future.

67

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

• Require states to match federal election grant funds
at a 70–30 percent federal-state split and engage in
long-term planning for their election infrastructure
upgrades, including best practices recommended by
organizations like the Center for Internet Security.

Enabling Recommendation
3.4.1 Modernize Campaign Regulations to
Promote Cybersecurity
Nation-state adversaries have repeatedly attempted to
hack U.S. political campaigns for the dual purposes
of gathering intelligence and sowing political discord
through the selective disclosure of otherwise private, campaign-specific information.206 Campaign organizations
need more resources to protect themselves, but federal
campaign finance law (1) limits the financial support that

national political parties can provide to campaigns, and
(2) broadly prohibits corporate contributions to campaigns. While these limitations have been imposed for
good reasons and should remain in place, an unintended
consequence is that they have functionally limited the
cybersecurity support available to campaigns.
In the past few years, the Federal Election Commission
has issued several advisory opinions authorizing certain
corporations to provide cybersecurity assistance to
campaigns. These opinions are narrowly tailored, however, and fail to provide sufficient assurance that similar
(or expanded) requests will be approved in the future. By
contrast, a statutory amendment would provide muchneeded clarity and flexibility regarding this vital issue.
Congress therefore should amend the Federal Election

What Is a Malign Influence Campaign?
On May 21, 2016, two groups of demonstrators encountered one another outside an Islamic center in Houston, Texas. One
group was attending a gathering called “Stop Islamification [sic] of Texas,” while the other had shown up for a “Save Islamic
Knowledge” event. Verbal insults and physical confrontations ensued.207
Both groups had been drawn to the Islamic center by two sets of social media advertisements purchased for $200 by a Russian
information operations cell or “troll farm” called the Internet Research Agency (IRA).208 During the 2016 election cycle more
than 3,000 different advertisements purchased by the IRA made their way into the social media feeds of everyday Americans.209
These citizens were microtargeted with the same methods used by mainstream consumer advertisers.210
The modern digital economy is built on a model of directing consumers to tailored advertisements after observing their
behavior. Disturbingly, our adversaries use the very same approach against us and even do so legally. A growing sector of
Russian “Manipulation Service Providers” like the IRA create fake accounts on popular social media websites to influence
online discourse. These fake accounts can drive the comments, clicks, likes, and shares that social media algorithms interpret
as popularity.211 Other authoritarians are learning from Russia’s example; China is rapidly honing its own efforts to influence
democratic societies, most brazenly during Taiwan’s recent election cycles.212
Combating this kind of disinformation will require coordination between the public and private sectors to identify and shut
down fake accounts, but the threat will continue to far exceed our capacity to respond. A sustainable solution will require
equipping Americans with the media and digital literacy necessary to recognize untrustworthy online content. Such a resilient
public—one that understands the value of democracy, the role of its institutions, and the ways in which individuals can help
hold those institutions accountable—will find it easier to resist disguised pernicious disinformation intended to undermine
trust and lead to disengagement.

68

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE

Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA) to allow corporations to
provide free and reduced-cost cybersecurity assistance to
political campaigns, so long as such assistance is offered

on a nonpartisan basis as assessed by neutral and objective criteria.213

Key Recommendation
3.5 The U.S. government should promote digital literacy, civics education, and public awareness
to build societal resilience to foreign malign cyber-enabled information operations.
Like American democracy, a safe and secure cyberspace
environment depends on the trust and educated stakeholdership of its users. While service providers and
product manufacturers are working to develop security
frameworks that do not overburden end users, individual
Americans are still the most important guarantors of
their individual and collective cybersecurity. A third of
all breaches still stem from a malign actor’s success in
persuading individuals to open phishing emails, one of
the simplest forms of social engineering.214

institutions, digital literacy should be coupled with civics
education explaining what democracy is, how individuals
can hold their leadership accountable, and why democracy must be nurtured and protected.

Similarly, cyber-enabled information operations are
increasingly taking their assaults on trust beyond cyberspace and into our broader society. Therefore, we should
respond beyond cyberspace, because “[t]he defense of
democracy in an age of cyber information war cannot
rely on technology alone.”215 Americans must become
better equipped to recognize such operations, so that they
can mitigate their damage. These information operations
endanger our national security by threatening to undermine trust and confidence in American democracy and
its institutions—including but also extending beyond
our elections.216 Such operations have previously taken
the form of hack-and-release attacks and disinformation campaigns on social media and other outlets.217
These campaigns seek to convince Americans that their
democracy is irrevocably broken, leading them to conflict
out of anger or to disengagement out of despair.218
Improving digital literacy is one way to counter these
threats, but alone it is insufficient. Because the intent of
so many cyber-enabled information operations is to cause
Americans to distrust or lose faith in democracy and its

Promote Digital Literacy and Modernize Civic Education:
By promoting modern civics education and digital
literacy programs, the U.S. government can assist in
enhancing the average American’s ability to discern the
trustworthiness of online content, and thereby reduce
the impact of malicious foreign cyber-enabled information campaigns, without running afoul of concerns
about regulating speech. Congress should enable the
Department of Education by authorizing a grant program funding nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
private-sector entities, and SLTT education agencies both
to study how best to improve digital citizenship and to
incorporate effective digital literacy curricula in American
classrooms at the K-12 level and beyond. This program
should run in tandem with DHS programs and with the
collaboration of subject matter experts to develop content
on cyber-enabled information operations and other
topics of which citizens should be aware. Such curricula
should incorporate critical thinking and problem-solving
skills, information on implicit vs. explicit messaging, and
technology concepts.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

For these reasons, the U.S. government must ensure
that individual Americans have both the digital literacy
tools and the civics education they need to secure their
networks and their democracy from cyber-enabled information operations.

69

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Evaluate and Strengthen Efforts to Raise Public Awareness
of Cyber Threats: Congress should (1) direct the
Government Accountability Office (GAO) to evaluate
the effectiveness of government spending on cybersecurity awareness efforts, including the “Stop. Think.
Connect.” campaign, and (2) authorize and fund DHS,
in coordination with the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) and the National Science
Foundation (NSF), to establish a grant program seeking research and proposals for effective mechanisms to
improve, develop, and implement a public awareness and
education initiative on cybersecurity. Successful grantees
should prioritize:
• Actionable, consistent public messaging on cybersecurity threats and responses with very specific desired
outcomes.
• Wide propagation of cybersecurity warnings among
information technology (IT) professionals.
• Modern, vetted, and continually updated “train-thetrainer” resources for academic institutions, trade
schools, and other organizations seeking to provide
cybersecurity education to the public.
• Demonstrably effective methods for bringing specific
and actionable cyber threat information to the attention of the general public.

Enabling Recommendation
3.5.1 Reform Online Political Advertising to
Defend against Foreign Influence in Elections
Although foreign nationals are banned from contributing to U.S. political campaigns, they are still allowed to
purchase U.S. political advertisements online, making the
internet a fertile environment for conducting a malign
influence campaign to undermine American elections.
In advance of the 2016 U.S. federal elections, Russia
launched just such a campaign and purchased thousands
of online political ads targeting U.S. elections.219 That
action was and still is possible because the FECA, which
establishes rules for transparency in television, radio, and
print media political advertising, has not been amended
to extend the same political advertising requirements to
internet platforms. Applying these standards across all
media of communication would, among other things,
increase transparency of funding for political advertisements, which would in turn strengthen regulators’ ability
to reduce improper foreign influence in our elections.
There are pending legislative proposals on this critical
issue, and Congress should seek to find a consensus.

Multi-factor Authentication
According to the SANS Institute, single-factor authentication (e.g., passwords) is a major threat vector that malicious actors
exploit to breach seemingly secure systems. One of the best methods to prevent these types of attacks is multi-factor
authentication, or a system that requires a password and an additional method, such as a text or an “authenticator” application, for users to authenticate their identity when logging into a system. Researchers at Google found that even the most
basic multi-factor verification methods prevent 96 percent of bulk phishing attacks and more than three-quarters of targeted
attacks.220 Both consumers and businesses should take full advantage of multi-factor authentication to protect their networks,
their accounts, and their information.

70

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM
TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

D

enying adversaries benefits is crucial for successful layered cyber deterrence. Whereas building
resilience denies adversaries benefits by managing the
consequences of attacks, reshaping the cyber ecosystem
toward greater security drives down cyber vulnerability
at national scale, lowering the likelihood of successful
attacks in the first place. In cyber conflict, the cyber
ecosystem is the battlefield. Unlike more conventional
battlefields, the cyber ecosystem is entirely humanmade and therefore can be manipulated in ways other
domains may not be. This feature provides a unique
opportunity for the United States to shape its cyber
ecosystem in ways that make it more difficult for
adversaries to achieve their goals and that deny them the
benefits of their operations. Today, the cyber ecosystem
is more than the technology—information, network,
and operational technology—that constitutes the
internet. The ecosystem is also the people, processes,
and organizations that plug into the technology and
the data they combine to produce. This ecosystem has
increased the speed of our communications as well as
efficiency, functionality, and growth in the economy.
But while it is central to the functioning of the nation,
it has also introduced significant challenges—causing
vulnerability across the United States. Adversaries leverage vulnerabilities in this ecosystem and its expansive
reach into our society to gain an asymmetric advantage,
developing capabilities to hold our critical infrastructure
at risk, disrupt our elections, and spy on and target the
American people.

address risk, the U.S. government must explore executive action, investment, legislation, and regulation.
Specifically, this pillar focuses on five strategic objectives.

This pillar attempts to drive down vulnerability across the
ecosystem by shifting the burden of security away from
end users to owners and operators, developers, and manufacturers who can more effectively implement security
solutions at the appropriate scale. In some cases, scaling
up security means aligning market forces. Where those
market forces either are not present or do not adequately

Third, this pillar seeks to better leverage large-scale information and communications technology enablers—both
by empowering companies that can deploy security across
the ecosystem and by encouraging them to deploy it.
While the U.S. government’s ability to directly influence
the ecosystem is limited, companies that provide services
and infrastructure essential to the functioning of the

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

First, this pillar seeks to promote the creation of more
secure technology—both by incentivizing product
manufacturers to scrap a “first to market” mentality in
favor of a “secure to market” approach and by ensuring
that they have access to trusted suppliers. Technology
companies are under intense market pressure to prioritize
“first to market” over security, thereby passing on risk to
companies and individuals. The aggregated vulnerability
assumed by these companies and individuals has created
a significant national concern: rampant insecurity that
passes costs of billions of dollars to downstream consumers and that has the potential both to disrupt our day-today life and to undermine public confidence in and the
effectiveness of key institutions.
Second, this pillar endeavors to change behavior, encouraging more secure practices by users and organizations.
Standards bodies and regulators in key sectors have developed numerous standards and best practices for organizations’ behavior. However, with some notable exceptions,
commitment to these standards and practices is largely
voluntary. Incentivizing better practices—including those
that would shape or offset the behavior of individual
employees—means both crafting financial incentives for
better behavior, through a vibrant insurance market, and
holding bad behavior to account.

71

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

internet could have outsized impact on its security. For
these entities, some forms of security—what is required
to ensure that the services they provide are always available—are already incentivized. The financial benefit of
other aspects of security—ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of the data they hold and the networks they
administer—is often less obvious, but no less important
for managing national vulnerability.
Fourth, as technology supply chains have become more
complex and global, the United States has grown more
dependent on suppliers susceptible to malign influence, a
possibility that creates new vectors to introduce vulnerabilities into the ecosystem. In shaping its cyber ecosystem,
the United States must identify industries and technologies
critical to national and economic security and take steps
to reduce vulnerability at a macroeconomic level (e.g.,
industrial strategy and market exclusions) and at a microeconomic level (e.g., supply chain risk management).

Fifth, this pillar attempts to build better data security at
the systemic level. New industries are being created that
rely on the concentration and analysis of private data, but
they are emerging in an ecosystem with few norms and
complex, and at times even conflicting, laws governing
the appropriate use and security of that data. At the same
time, breaches of private data offer malicious actors a
treasure trove of information. The information stolen
from American entrepreneurs, public officials, industry
leaders, everyday citizens, and even clandestine operatives
is fueling social engineering and espionage campaigns
against U.S. firms and agencies. This entanglement of private data security and national security reveals the need
for legal and technical norms to protect the information
of individuals and firms, minimize the likelihood of their
loss or manipulation, and make the “big data” economy
safe for everyday Americans.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #1:

INCENTIVIZE GREATER SECURITY IN THE MARKETS FOR TECHNOLOGY
The U.S. government should incentivize the creation of more secure technology. Currently, technology
companies are under intense market pressure to prioritize being “first to market” over security, an approach
that in turn passes risk on to other companies and individuals.221 Moving the markets for technologies
toward greater security requires delineating clearer expectations and standards for what constitutes secure
technology development and maintenance, presenting that information to consumers in an accessible form
to help them make informed decisions, and incentivizing suppliers to build security into the development
lifecycle of the products they sell.

Key Recommendation
4.1 Congress should establish and fund a National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Authority empowered to establish and manage a program for voluntary security certifications and
labeling of information and communications technology products.
While agreed-on security standards and best practices are
useful in reducing vulnerability in information technology
products, they can be employed more effectively to move

72

product developers to use security as a product differentiator. Without accessible and transparent mechanisms,
such as certifications (e.g., Energy Star, Underwriters

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

Laboratory, or Certified Organic products) and labels (e.g.,
nutrition labels), to compare security between products,
critical infrastructure owners and operators cannot easily
price security into their purchasing decisions.222 The lack
of differentiation leads to a lack of demand for more secure
products; as a result, product developers have little market
incentive to make established security standards or security
best practices a primary consideration in designing, testing,
and developing their products. Short of regulation, the
U.S. government is institutionally and legally limited in its
ability to attest and certify that products adhere to security standards, and third-party efforts to fill this gap lack
sufficient scale, funding, and maturity to enact meaningful
change in the marketplace.223
To address this gap, Congress should pass a law directing
the Department of Commerce, in coordination with
the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the
Department of Defense (DoD), to hold a competitive
bid for a nonprofit, nongovernmental organization to
be designated and funded as the National Cybersecurity
Certification and Labeling Authority. This organization
would be charged with establishing and managing a voluntary cybersecurity certification and labeling program for
information and communication technologies.224 This designation should last five years and carry with it sufficient
funding for its operational costs and the programmatic
activities necessary to carry out its mission. The National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority should
be overseen by a committee chaired by the Department of
Commerce and DHS, with membership from DoD, the
Department of Energy, and the Federal Trade Commission
(FTC). The law should also empower the FTC to set and
levy fines if it is found that companies are falsely attesting
to a standard for certification, are intentionally mislabeling
products, or have failed to maintain the standard to which
they have attested.
In order to keep pace with rapidly changing technology
and good practices in secure technology development,
the National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Authority must be supported by empirical efforts both to

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

test products and to continually identify good practices
in secure product development. Any certification and
labeling work should build on existing endeavors in and
outside of government, including such efforts as the
Critical Technology Security Centers (recommendation
4.1.1), the Cyber Independent Testing Laboratory, the
Digital Standard, and the Software Bills of Material work
at the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA).225
Product Certification and Attestation: The National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority
should be established and empowered to publicly certify
products that vendors have attested meet and comply
with secure product development best practices and other
cybersecurity standards identified by the authority. Issued
certifications should be publicly accessible and manufacturers should be encouraged to display certification marks
on product packaging. For industrial control systems,
network technology, and open-source code projects,
the proposed Critical Technology Security Centers
could serve as testing centers in support of the National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority.
Accredited Certifying Agents: Like the organics certifying
program run by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
the National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Program should be empowered to define criteria and a
process for accrediting nongovernmental organizations as
certifying agents. Agents should be accredited to certify
individual classes of products. For example, an entity
could apply to be a certifying agent that specifically
reviews connected industrial control systems, internet
of things (IoT) devices, operating systems, cloud service
offerings (recommendation 4.5), or voting machines,
among other things.
Comparative Security Scoring: In coordination with the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
and subject matter experts across the federal government, academia, relevant nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector, the National Cybersecurity

73

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Certification and Labeling Authority should be charged
with defining and establishing a set of metrics for
quantifying and scoring the security of hardware and
software. This scoring regime should differentiate
between product type and intended operating environment, setting higher scoring metrics for products that
have systemic industrial applications.

information on the characteristics and constituent components of a software or hardware product, including those
that contribute to the security of a product or service. The
authority should also establish a mechanism by which
product developers can educate users about these characteristics and components, providing this information for
both product labeling and public posting.226

Partnership on Product Labeling: The National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority should
work with the private sector to standardize language
and develop a labeling regime to provide transparent

Integration with Ongoing Efforts: The National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority should
identify and integrate ongoing public, private, and international efforts to develop security standards, frameworks,

Can the 5G Deployment Be Made Fundamentally Secure?
A recurring finding from this Commission’s research has been the misalignment of market forces that place profit and cybersecurity in opposition. The deployment of 5G systems will increase the urgency of a national conversation on the cybersecurity
responsibilities that private-sector entities owe to their customers, and the Commission hopes it will also demonstrate how
misaligned incentives can be corrected to produce outcomes that are good both for business and for security.
The deployment of 5G systems will dramatically increase the “attack surface,” or the exposed routes through which malicious
actors can threaten our networks. An exponential increase in connected devices will more deeply embed the internet in our
lives and may, in turn, lead to a rise in the everyday leakage of private data. Worse still, security vulnerabilities will spread into
sectors not traditionally associated with cyberspace (e.g., transportation, agriculture, or health care) and thereby increase the
risk of catastrophic systemic failures.
Given the cascading risks that will accompany widespread 5G deployment, the U.S. government has a responsibility to set
clear cybersecurity standards in the marketplace. These standards should shape cyberspace hardware and software development toward being both “secure-by-design” and “secure-by-default.” A secure-by-design system has security baked into
its fundamental construction—and not simply added as a feature when a given product is ready to hit the market. A secureby-default system would similarly not require consumers to “turn on” any included security features in order to realize their
benefits; a consumer would not have to know they’re there to trust that they’re working.227 Prioritizing critical cybersecurity
design principles like these should be seen by the private sector as a means to profit rather than as a burden.
With this in mind, the U.S. government should push firms (particularly service providers) to create and use trusted 5G components and vendors. It should also work with and incentivize support for small and medium-sized telecom providers, as well as
state, local, territorial, and tribal governments, to upgrade outdated and vulnerable cellular infrastructure. Finally, digital products must provide clear, easy-to-digest information on their security features and capabilities; consumers’ resulting decisions
about purchases would raise the quality of products made available in the marketplace.
By pointing the way to a secure 5G future, the United States can illuminate the path connecting cybersecurity with profitability.

74

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

and certifications. This work should build on, but not
be limited to, existing efforts at the Department of
Commerce to develop software bills of material and the
DoD’s Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification.
Update to Federal Procurement Regulations and Guidelines:
Within five years the executive branch should consider
updating federal procurement regulations and guidelines,
including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, to require
National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Authority certifications and labeling for certain information technology products and services procured by
the federal government. The executive branch should be
required to report to Congress on its decision to require
National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Authority certifications and labeling under Federal
Acquisition Regulations, the extent of these requirements,
or an explanation if no action was taken.

Enabling Recommendations
4.1.1 Create or Designate Critical Technology
Security Centers
While various public and private entities currently
provide security evaluations and testing, the U.S. government lacks trusted, centralized entities to perform
these functions. Congress should direct and appropriate
fund for DHS, in partnership with the Department
of Commerce, Department of Energy, Office of the
Director of National Intelligence, and DoD, to competitively select, designate, and fund up to three Critical
Technology Security Centers in order to centralize efforts
directed toward evaluating and testing the security of
devices and technologies that underpin our networks
and critical infrastructure.228 These Centers would
provide the U.S. government with the capacity to test
the security of critical technologies and, when appropriate, assist in identifying vulnerabilities, developing
mitigation techniques with relevant original equipment
manufacturers, and supporting new and ongoing efforts
to certify technologies as secure. The Centers could also
play an important role as project managers and, in some
cases, would provide funding for the broader research

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

community already working toward similar ends. To
the greatest extent possible, these centers should be
designated from existing efforts and institutions, such
as ongoing industrial control system work at the Idaho
National Lab, rather than created as new entities.
The Centers should be focused on technologies critical
to the security of the national cyber ecosystem and of
critical infrastructure. This initial list of Centers could be
expanded in the future to focus on other critical technologies, including IoT devices:
• A Center for Network Technology Security to test the
security of hardware and software that underpins our
cyber ecosystem, including routers, radio equipment, modems, switches, and other core network
technology.
• A Center for Connected Industrial Control Systems
Security to test the security of connected programmable logic controllers, supervisory control and data
acquisition servers and systems, and other connected
industrial equipment.
• A Center for Open-Source Software Security to systematically identify critical open-source libraries and test
and fix vulnerabilities in open-source software repositories, which provide the basis for most software in
use today.229

4.1.2 Expand and Support the National
Institute of Standards and Technology
Security Work
The U.S. government is uniquely placed to identify and
legitimize standards and best practices. In cybersecurity,
standards are crucial for helping regulators understand
how to regulate, helping companies understand the state
of the art, and helping developers understand security
expectations. NIST, which is within the Department of
Commerce, is the body through which the U.S. government—often in collaboration or consultation with
the private sector—identifies, harmonizes, and develops
technology standards, guidelines, tools, and measurement
capabilities. As the rapid pace of technological change
poses new security challenges, the role of NIST will

75

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

continue to grow. While NIST employs some of the
U.S. government’s leading experts in cyber and emerging
technologies, it lacks the resources necessary to meet the
increasing demands on its staff and support expanding
mission requirements. Failure to invest in and grow
NIST’s capacity runs the risk of impeding the development of both U.S. government and private-sector security
initiatives.
Congress should increase funding in support of NIST’s
work on cybersecurity. Specifically, NIST should be
appropriately resourced to:

• Routinely update industry-wide frameworks and standards, including the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
• Develop and harmonize standards for secure technology development, building on ongoing work on the
secure software development lifecycle.230
• Develop and harmonize standards for specific
processes, including standards for vulnerability and
patch management, and provide lasting institutional
support for the National Vulnerability Database,
Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures program,
and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency’s (CISA) vulnerability disclosure work.

Key Recommendation
4.2 Congress should pass a law establishing that final goods assemblers of software, hardware, and
firmware are liable for damages from incidents that exploit known and unpatched vulnerabilities
Software vulnerabilities present cracks in systems that
our adversaries seek to exploit. Shortening the lifecycle
of vulnerabilities by ensuring that patches are created
and implemented in a timely manner would limit their
availability to those who seek to exploit them, driving up
adversaries’ operating costs and denying them the benefits
that successful exploitation could bring.231 However, the
discovery and responsible disclosure of vulnerabilities
does little to inhibit their use for malicious purposes
unless the vulnerabilities are patched. Patch development
and distribution—the processes whereby the developer of
the software creates a fix to a vulnerability and distributes
it to users so that they can update their systems—is key
to eliminating the risk that a given vulnerability can pose
across the ecosystem.
When a software vulnerability is found, users of that
software have little recourse to mitigate their inherited
vulnerability beyond taking the vulnerable system
offline—an unworkable solution that in many cases
would result in business interruption. In these cases,
users are entirely reliant on the software vendor to
develop and issue a patch. Large-sample empirical

76

research has found that 50 percent of vulnerabilities
remain without a patch for more than 438 days after
disclosure, that a quarter of vulnerabilities remain
without a committed patch beyond three years, and that
there is no correlation between a vulnerability’s severity
and the length of its lifespan.232
To date, there has not been a clearly defined duty of
care for final goods assemblers in their repsonsibilities
for developing and issuing patches for known vulnerabilities in their products and services, the timeliness of
those patches, and maintaining a vulnerability disclosure
policy.233 To encourage final goods assemblers to shorten
the vulnerability lifecycle by more quickly developing and
issuing patches, the U.S. government should establish
a duty of care in law. Congress should therefore enact
legislation establishing that final goods assemblers of software, hardware, and firmware are liable for damages from
incidents that exploit vulnerabilities that were known at
the time of shipment or discovered and not fixed within
a reasonable amount of time. The law should establish
expectations that final goods assemblers are responsible
for producing security patches for as long as the product

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

or service is supported (as disclosed at the time of sale)
or for a year after the last function-enhancing patch is
released, whichever is later.234
As part of these measures’s implementation, Congress
should direct the Federal Trade Commission to establish
a regulation mandating transparency from final goods
assemblers. This regulation should levy requirements that
make it easier for the end users or purchaser to understand how a final goods assembler finds, logs, discloses,
and retains vulnerabilities. The regulation should also
require disclosure of known, unpatched vulnerabilities in
a good or service at the time of sale.
Definition of “Known Vulnerability”: The regulation
should account for common methods by which a vulnerability would be made known to a software or hardware
developer or manufacturer—including vulnerabilities
publicly disclosed through existing public databases, such
as the National Vulnerability Database and Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures program;235 vulnerabilities
reported to the software or hardware developer by a third
party; and vulnerabilities discovered by the software or
hardware developer themselves.
Definition of “Final Goods Assembler”: The final goods
assembler should be the entity that enters into an end
user licence agreement with the user of the product
or service and is most responsible for the placement
of a product or service into the stream of commerce.
Products and services can include not just objects such
as smartphones and laptops but also operating systems,
applications, and connected industrial control systems.
There is one final goods assembler for each product
or service, and the definition of final goods assembler
should not include resellers who repackage products
without modifying them.
Vulnerability Disclosure and Retention: The regulation
should require that final goods assemblers, as well as
the software and hardware component developers and
manufacturers, establish a publicly accessible process

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

for vulnerability reporting, retain records documenting
when a vulnerability was made known to or discovered
by the company, and maintain a vulnerability disclosure
and patching policy for their products that conforms
to the requirements set out under this regulation. The
regulation should therefore acknowledge and encourage
the concept of coordinated vulnerability disclosure—
the process by which the discoverer of a vulnerability
reports it directly to the vendor responsible for the
software’s maintenance—building on earlier work by
CISA and the NTIA.236

Enabling Recommendation
4.2.1 Incentivize Timely Patch
Implementation
In 2015, the Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report
found that 99.9 percent of vulnerabilities in use by
attackers had been known for more than a year, most
with a patch available.237 Vulnerability discovery, vulnerability disclosure, and patch development do little to
shrink the supply of vulnerabilities available to adversaries
if the patches go unimplemented by users. With some
exceptions, when a vendor or assembler of software issues
a method of remediating a vulnerability, the onus of
implementing that remediation falls on the user of that
software or hardware. When implementing a security
update poses a challenge to the configuration of the user’s
environment, possibly leading to downtime or the need
to reconfigure a system entirely, these patches can often
go unimplemented.
Short of regulation, there is likely no one way to incentivize companies to better patch their systems. Instead, the
U.S. government should study the potential effectiveness
of several actions, including:
• Directing NIST to develop guidance or expectations
about how quickly patches should be implemented
once released.
• Placing a cap, via standards or certifications of insurance products, on insurance payouts for incidents
that involve unpatched systems.

77

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #2:

INCENTIVIZE BETTER ORGANIZATIONAL CYBERSECURITY
The U.S. government should endeavor to change private-sector cybersecurity behavior, encouraging
more secure practices by users and organizations. Whereas measures to incentivize greater security in the
marketplace for technologies seek to drive down technical vulnerability, incentivizing better organizational
cybersecurity behavior seeks to address the human and organizational aspects of national vulnerability.
To achieve this, the U.S. government needs to build a greater statistical capacity to develop, test, and
understand the effectiveness of good practices and standards. Armed with a greater understanding of
good practices, the U.S. government should use all available instruments to craft incentives to change
behavior at large scale, including shaping market forces like the insurance market, crafting regulations, and
changing federal procurement practices.

Key Recommendation
4.3 Congress should establish a Bureau of Cyber Statistics charged with collecting and
providing statistical data on cybersecurity and the cyber ecosystem to inform policymaking and
government programs.
While there is broad consensus that cyberattacks on U.S.
citizens and businesses are increasing in frequency and
severity, the U.S. government and broader marketplace
lack sufficient clarity about the nature and scope of these
attacks to develop nuanced and effective policy responses.
Compounding this problem is a fundamental lack of clarity about what security measures are effective in reducing
risk in the technologies, in business enterprises, and
even at the level of national policymaking. This confusion limits the ability of the government to evaluate the
effectiveness of its cybersecurity programs and prevents
private enterprises and insurance providers from being
able to adequately price, model, and understand cyber
risk. Existing data sets are incomplete and provide only a
superficial or cursory understanding of evolving trends in
cybersecurity and cyberspace.
To address similar gaps in other policy areas, the United
States established statistical agencies to inform both
public policymaking and private decision making. These
agencies, like the Bureau of Labor Statistics, established
the metrics and reporting by which government policy

78

and private-sector efforts are measured and report those
assessments. One of the great successes of many of these
statistical agencies has been in delivering useful information to improve the lives of everyday Americans, while
anonymizing that information and protecting privacy.
The U.S. government should adopt this model for
cyberspace.
Congress should establish a Bureau of Cyber Statistics
within the Department of Commerce, or another
department or agency, that would act as the government
statistical agency that collects, processes, analyzes, and
disseminates essential statistical data on cybersecurity,
cyber incidents, and the cyber ecosystem to the American
public, Congress, other federal agencies, state and local
governments, and the private sector. Statistical analysis
provided by the Bureau would be useful for informing
national risk (recommendations 3.1 and 3.1.1), helping
the insurance industry create more accurate risk models
(recommendation 4.4.1), and helping the U.S. government craft more effective cybersecurity policy and
programs.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

The Definition and Promulgation of Cybersecurity Metrics:
In partnership with NIST, the Bureau would be charged
with identifying and establishing meaningful metrics and
data necessary to measure cybersecurity and risk reduction in cyberspace. As part of this task, the Bureau would
develop, in collaboration with departments and agencies, metrics that would enable better evaluation of the
adoption, reach, and effectiveness of federal cybersecurity
programs. This information would also be made available to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
to guide decision making on budgets and priorities for
programs.
Data Collection and Aggregation: The Bureau should be
empowered and sufficiently funded to establish programs
and make purchases required to collect the data necessary
to inform its analysis. These tasks include collecting and
aggregating open-source data, purchasing private or
proprietary data repositories, and conducting surveys.
Departments and agencies should assist the Bureau in its
work, making available data sets as needed, and to the
greatest extent practicable, in furtherance of its work.
Cyber Incident Reporting: In the authorizing legislation,
Congress should mandate that relevant departments
and agencies, as well as companies that regularly collect cyber incident data as a part of their business, are
required to provide aggregated, anonymized, minimized
data on cyber incidents to inform statistical analysis on

a yearly basis.238 The law would authorize the Bureau of
Cyber Statistics to define key data points, a standardized
format, timelines, and mechanisms for complying with
these requirements, unless departments and agencies are
precluded by a legal constraint or by considerations of
operational sensitivity.239 The law should also insulate
these private companies from liability associated with
disclosing minimized, anonymized, and aggregated data
to the Bureau.
Data Privacy and Protection: Authorizing legislation
should ensure that the aggregated and anonymized data
collected is insulated from public disclosure, the collection and retention of personally identifiable information
is minimized, and, in the case of cyber incidents, the
identity of victims is protected. In addition, legislation
should establish safeguards against or punitive measures
for the disclosure of raw data to regulatory agencies or
non-federal entities.
Academic and Private-Sector Exchanges: The Bureau
should be funded and equipped to host academics as well
as private-sector and independent security researchers as a
part of extended exchanges. The purpose of this program
should be to ensure that the Bureau can benefit from new
methods and techniques of data and statistical analysis
and that academia and the public can benefit from the
public-interest research sourced from its data sets.

Key Recommendation
4.4 Congress should resource and direct the Department of Homeland Security to resource
a federally funded research and development center to work with state-level regulators in
developing certifications for cybersecurity insurance products.
A robust and functioning market for insurance products
can have the same positive effect on the risk management behavior of firms as do regulatory interventions.
Although the insurance industry plays an important
role in enabling organizations to transfer a small portion

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

of their cyber risk, it is falling short of achieving the
public policy objective of driving better practices of risk
management in the private sector more generally. The
reasons for this failure are varied but largely come down
to an inability on the part of the insurance industry to

79

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

comprehensively understand and price risk, due in part
to a lack of talented underwriters and claims adjusters
and the absence of standards and frameworks for how
cyber risk should be priced. This has had the combined
effect of creating an opaque environment for enterprises
attempting to purchase coverage and undermining the
effectiveness of insurance as an incentive to push enterprises toward better security behavior.
Because insurance falls under the purview of state
regulators, the federal government can do little to directly
affect change in the market for insurance specific to a
given industry, short of creating large-scale programs
akin to the crop insurance program instituted by the
Federal Crop Insurance Act. Thus, to bring to maturity
and improve the market for cybersecurity insurance,
Congress should appropriate funds and direct DHS to
resource a Federally Funded Research and Development
Center (FFRDC) to develop models for underwriter and
claims adjuster training and certification. In addition,
the program should develop certification frameworks
for cybersecurity insurance products in consultation and
coordination with state insurance regulators.
Underwriter Training and Certification: For underwriters
to effectively evaluate and analyze risk in a given industry,
they must understand it. Certification is available for
underwriters in other areas of insurance, including homeowners, flood, life, and health. The FFRDC should work
with insurers, state regulators, and experts in cybersecurity risk management to develop curricula and training
courses for cyber insurance underwriters required under a
cyber insurance underwriter certification.
Claims Adjuster Training and Certification: Like underwriters, claims adjusters are crucial in ensuring that
insurance policies can adapt to changing conditions. Like
underwriting, other areas of insurance have training and
certification available for claims adjusters. The FFRDC
should work with insurers, state regulators, and cybersecurity risk management experts to develop training and
certification models for cyber claims adjusters.

80

Cyber Insurance Product Certification: State insurance
regulators can and often do set minimum standards that
insurance products must meet in order to be offered
in their state, thereby “ensuring that insurance policy
provisions comply with state law, are reasonable and fair,
and do not contain major gaps in coverage that might be
misunderstood by consumers and leave them unprotected.”240 Working with state insurance regulators and the
public-private working group on pricing and modeling
cyber risk (recommendation 4.4.1), the FFRDC should
develop cybersecurity product certifications based on a
common lexicon and security standards.

Enabling Recommendations
4.4.1 Establish a Public-Private Partnership
on Modeling Cyber Risk
For insurance to act as a de facto regulator of organizational behavior, the market for insurance must accurately
price risk. Premiums and limits on insurance products
must also drive firms that have bought insurance to invest
in improving their cyber risk posture. Today, insurance
companies lack quality data sets and models to understand, price, and mitigate cyber risk.241 Although bad or
incomplete data is a major barrier to accurately pricing
cyber risk, insurers are not incentivized to pool and
aggregate their data to build more robust and accurate
pricing models.242
The executive branch should establish a public-private
working group at DHS to convene insurance companies
and cyber risk modeling companies to collaborate in
pooling and leveraging available statistics and data that
can inform innovations in cyber risk modeling. Drawing
on insights gained by the defunct Cyber Incident Data
and Analysis Working Group at DHS, and informed by
the work of the Bureau of Cyber Statistics (recommendation 4.3), this effort should identify areas of common
interest so that these entities can benefit from one
another’s risk modeling efforts, particularly with regard
to dependency mapping and the consequences of cyber
disruptions. One applicable use-case would be the work
of the National Risk Management Center as it intersects

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

with the work of the cybersecurity insurance industry.
The working group should:
• Develop frameworks and research methodologies for
understanding and accurately pricing cyber risk.
• Conduct research on the applicability and utility of
common frameworks, controls, and “essentials” as
baseline requirements for reducing premiums in pricing insurance risk, such as the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework and the International Organization
for Standardization/International Electrotechnical
Commission (ISO/IEC) 27000 standards family.
• Identify common areas of interest for pooling
anonymized data from which to derive better, more
accurate risk models.

4.4.2 Explore the Need for a Government
Reinsurance Program to Cover Catastrophic
Cyber Events
In December 2016, the U.S. Department of Treasury
issued guidance clarifying that cyber events could trigger
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) protections.
However, the U.S. government is in a position to do
more to further define what types of cyber events fall
under the TRIA umbrella and what types of events
should remain covered by insurance companies themselves. Currently, TRIA coverage is activated only for a
“certified act of terrorism.” The Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2020243 directs the Comptroller

Can Modern Insurance Improve Cybersecurity?
Insurance can provide financial incentives for individuals and organizations to better manage their risk. From incentivizing the
use of seatbelts and airbags in the automotive industry to pushing for fire suppression systems as a part of building codes, the
insurance industry has played an important role in identifying risk management standards for individual consumers and large
corporations alike. A robust and functioning market for cyber insurance could play a similar role in identifying and regulating
behavior to improve cyber risk management.244
Today, the market for cyber insurance is failing to deliver on this potential. The reasons for this failure are varied. Insurers struggle to find underwriters and claims adjusters, the individuals charged with pricing and adjusting the price of risk, who understand cyber risk. Where talent exists, insufficient or inconsistent models for risk persist. Confounding these factors is the notion
of silent cyber risk—the cyber risk inherited from other insurance offerings, such as general corporate liability or property and
casualty coverage. All of these issues lead to a hesitancy on the part of insurers to assume meaningful amounts of risk that
would define a healthy cyber insurance market.
Currently, the estimated worldwide value of cyber insurance premiums sits at $7.5 billion.245 For context, in 2017 property and
casualty insurance premiums were worth $275.5 billion in the United States alone.246 Because insurers can either assume their
inherited cyber risk with little threat to their overall solvency or pass this risk along to reinsurers in the form of derivatives, they
have little incentive to push the entities they insure to manage that risk. For the insurance industry to effectively serve as a
lever to scale up risk management, the industry must mature to supply products aligned with the demands of those seeking to
buy them and must increase overall premiums to take on a meaningful amount of risk.
Some of this maturation will come with time, but the U.S. government is well placed to play the same role it has taken with
other emerging insurance industries throughout history, facilitating collaboration to develop mature and effective risk assessment models and expertise. Cyber insurance is not a silver bullet to solve the nation’s cybersecurity challenges. Indeed, a
robust and functioning market for cybersecurity insurance is not an end in and of itself, but a means to improve the cybersecurity of the U.S. private sector and the security of the nation as a whole in cyberspace.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

81

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

General at the Government Accountability Office (GAO)
to assess the current state of insurance for cyber-related
incidents. The Commission supports the need to study
the cyber insurance market and encourages the GAO
to work closely with relevant departments and agencies,
including the Department of Commerce, DHS, and
Department of the Treasury.
In addition to the aspects of the study outlined in the
law, the study should explore:
• Current exemptions for casualty and property insurance policies, including act of war exemptions, and
complications of including them in cyber insurance
policies.
• The existing scoping of the TRIA to assess whether
it is sufficiently broad to cover cyber events perpetrated by nation-states, which most general property
and casualty insurance policies currently exclude or
attempt to exclude.
• If the triggering threshold for the TRIA—a loss of
$200 million, as of the 2020 reauthorization—is
the appropriate size to trigger a similar backstop for
catastrophic cyber events.
• Comparative models of federal share percentage of a
cyber insurance–related backstop.
• What types of cyber events constitute “certified acts
of terrorism” and whether this provides a sufficient
backstop for insurers, as many major cyber events—
particularly those perpetrated by nation-states—may
not fit squarely under the definition of “certified act
of terrorism.”
• What events and which entities would be covered
by a backstop, given that terror attacks generally
take place in and affect a confined area, while some
cyber incidents are not bounded by geography. For
example, the study should address whether a cyberattack on an American company affecting only assets
in another jurisdiction would qualify.

82

4.4.3 Incentivize Information Technology
Security through Federal Acquisition
Regulations and Federal Information Security
Management Act Authorities
The U.S. government is in a powerful position to help
develop and generate more sustainable requirements for
cybersecurity best practices, as requirements placed on
government contractors can become de facto industry
standards.247 Requiring vendors to adhere to standards
when doing business with the federal government will
compel them to produce product or service offerings that
meet those standards, potentially making those more
secure offerings available to the broader public.248
The executive branch should direct the Federal
Acquisition Regulation Council and the Office of
Management and Budget to update its cybersecurity
regulations in the Federal Acquisition Regulations and
cybersecurity guidance under Federal Information
Security Management Act at least every five years, to
account for changing cybersecurity standards, and explore
ways to integrate and fully account for existing models
and frameworks, such as the Cybersecurity Maturity
Model Certification, in Federal Acquisition Regulations.
In addition, the Federal Acquisition Regulation Council
should be directed to update Federal Acquisition
Regulations to require that:
• Federal civilian agency contractors adhere to the
contractor-exclusive Binding Operational Directive
issued by DHS.249
• Federally procured information technology fully
accounts for identified good security practices for
building secure software and systems, such as those
offered by NIST’s Secure Software Development
Framework250 and the ISO/IEC 27000 standards
family.251
• When developing requirements, the council should
take into account lessons learned with NIST Special
Publication 800.171, comments from DoD’s

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, rulings
or comments of the Federal Acquisition Security
Council, and the ISO/IEC 27000 standards.
• Providers of information technology submit software
transparency and software bills of materials for the
systems they provide in support of government missions in line with the certifications and labels developed by the National Cybersecurity Certification and
Labeling Authority (recommendation 4.1).252
• Upon the development of cybersecurity insurance
policy certifications (recommendation 4.4), U.S.
government contractors maintain a certified level
of cybersecurity insurance and explore whether the
Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification should
be updated to require cybersecurity insurance.

4.4.4 Amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
to Include Cybersecurity Reporting
Requirements
In today’s cyber-based business environment, the
cybersecurity of a publicly traded company is a critical
component of its financial condition. In short, cyber risk
is a business risk. A company’s ability to rapidly detect,
investigate, and remediate network intrusions is a useful
indicator of the maturity of its security operations, in
its ability both to defend against cyberattacks and to mitigate the types of cybersecurity risks that could harm its
business operations and financial conditions.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act253 was passed in 2002 to
improve corporate accountability and oversight in
response to a series of corporate failures. The law sets
out requirements, enforced through the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), for all publicly traded
U.S. companies, including stricter disclosure rules and a
mandate that senior corporate officers certify the validity
of periodic financial reports, in addition to criminalizing

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

efforts by corporate personnel to improperly influence
auditors. In 2018, the SEC issued interpretive guidance
of existing regulations, stating that “although no existing
disclosure requirement explicitly refers to cybersecurity
risks and cyber incidents, companies nonetheless may be
obligated to disclose such risks and incidents,” including
the requirements under Sarbanes-Oxley.254
To harmonize and clarify cybersecurity oversight and
reporting requirements for publicly traded companies,
Congress should amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to
explicitly account for cybersecurity. Specifically, the
amendment should:
• Add a definition of an “information system,” to
mean “a set of activities, involving people, processes,
data, or technology, that enable the issuer to obtain,
generate, use, and communicate transactions and
information to maintain accountability and measure
and review the issuer’s performance or progress
toward the achievement of objectives.”
• Specify corporate responsibility requirements for
the security of information systems, including the
metrics and records publicly traded companies must
keep regarding risk assessments, determinations, and
decisions; cyber hygiene; and penetration testing and
red-teaming results, including a record of metrics
relating to the speed of their detection, investigation,
and remediation.255
• Mandate that public companies maintain, as part of
this requirement, internal records of cyber risk assessments, so that a full evaluation of cybersecurity risks
can be judged in acquisition or in legal or regulatory
action.
• Require management assessments and attestation of
plans to manage risk from information systems and
data.

83

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #3:

EMPOWER ICT ENABLERS TO DEPLOY SECURITY ACROSS THE ECOSYSTEM
The U.S. government should undertake efforts to better leverage the scale of information and
communications technology (ICT) enablers in cybersecurity—both by empowering companies that can
deploy security across the ecosystem and by incentivizing the adoption of the scalable security solutions
they offer. While the U.S. government’s ability to directly influence the ecosystem is limited, companies
that provide services and infrastructure essential to the functioning of the internet could have an outsized
impact on its security. For these entities, some forms of security—ensuring the continuous availability
of the services they provide—is already incentivized. The financial benefit of other aspects of security—
ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of the data they hold and the networks they administer—is often
less obvious, but no less important for managing national vulnerability.

Key Recommendation
4.5 The National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority, in consultation with the
National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Office of Management and Budget, and the
Department of Homeland Security, should develop a cloud security certification.
Traditional forms of data storage can generate a number
of vulnerabilities. First, hosting data on-site opens the
entity to the risk of a catastrophic event wiping out its
primary and backup data. Such an event could take the
form of a fire, an electrical surge, or water damage, as well
as a cyberattack. Traditional on-site data storage models
not only fail to meet the needs of an increasingly flexible
and disparate office culture but also offer a vulnerable target for cyberattack. Cloud-based services256 offer a more
economical and secure alternative to traditional forms
of data storage and computing. In addition to eliminating the costs for the business of purchasing hardware,
software, and other data center infrastructure, cloud
computing providers leverage a set of technologies and
policies that bolster the user’s security posture.257 In doing
so, cloud services could potentially provide maximum
levels of security by operating at scale. With sufficient
resources, cloud computing service providers house their
data on a worldwide network of regularly updated data
centers, maximizing the security of that data.258 Similarly,
large cloud service providers’ size and scale enable them
to provide more sophisticated security features (from

84

end-to-end encryption to security key authentication)
than would be practical for smaller organizations to
implement individually. Unless they invest significant
resources into securing their cloud data centers, small to
medium-sized data-hosting service providers risk opening
their customers to the vulnerabilities of misconfiguration.
Today, nearly two hundred thousand insecure cloud
configurations are in use. More than 43 percent of cloud
databases are not encrypted, and 40 percent of cloud
storage services have logging disabled.259
As various branches of government and the broader
economy increasingly adopt cloud services to strengthen
their data security, cloud infrastructure is becoming
critically important for the country. In the same way
that large distributors provide safer and more reliable
sources of drinking water than does a family well, large
cloud service providers often serve as a more dependable
and resilient source of data hosting and, in some cases,
infrastructure. Migration to cloud services therefore
stands to drive down risk for small and medium-sized
enterprises, but it also serves to concentrate national risk

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

in a relatively small number of entities. As of 2019, 90
percent of companies were on the cloud.260 In an age
when every company is a technology company, cloud
service providers that remotely manage a business’s IT
and networks—and often store large portions or all of an
entity’s data—hold a vast amount of public trust. This
concentration represents an opportunity for policymakers
to affect the security of the ecosystem through economies
of scale by holding entities that provide cloud services to
a higher security standard.
To fully realize the security and economic benefits of
the migration to the cloud, the U.S. government needs
to ensure that those services are able to provide security
value commensurate with the risk they hold in the
ecosystem.261 To accomplish this, DHS, in consultation
with NIST and OMB, should work with the National
Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority (recommendation 4.1) to develop a secure cloud certification.
In developing this certification, the U.S. government
should engage with and take lessons from the European
Union Agency for Cybersecurity, which is currently in
the early stages of developing certifications.262
Certifying Agent: The National Cybersecurity Certification
and Labeling Authority should serve as the certifying
agent for the cloud security certification. In the event
that the Authority does not exist, DHS, in consultation
with NIST, should serve as the certifying agent. Entities
eligible for certification should include any cloud service
provider or entity that operates cloud services, with a
focus on entities that provide infrastructure as a service
and platform as a service. The cloud security certification
should last two years, and the National Cybersecurity
Certification and Labeling Authority, or authorized
certifying agent, should be empowered to conduct initial
and subsequent audits of entities that apply for and meet
the requirements for certification.
Standards Development: Congress should direct NIST to
lead, in coordination with the National Cybersecurity
and Certification and Labeling Authority and DHS, a

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

public-private standards-making process for a secure cloud
standard. This process should include major cloud service
providers and small sector-specific cloud service providers.
Initial efforts should focus on standards for general business enterprise IT environments, with subsequent efforts
focusing on the application of cloud services in different
industrial contexts, environments, and sectors.
Security and Transparency: As part of its certification
development process, the National Cybersecurity
Certification and Labeling Authority should work with
NIST to develop metrics for security offered by which
cloud services can be compared to allow users to more
easily differentiate between more and less secure offerings,
and more clearly communicate what aspects of security
are the responsibility of the user rather than the provider.
When certifying the security of cloud services, the certifying agent should account for cloud security standards and
best practices as well as factors such as extrajudicial state
pressure that may be applied to a company to hand over
user data or information.
Update FedRAMP: Within five years, the executive
branch should consider updating and simplifying the
Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program
(FedRAMP) requirements to require that all non-national
security cloud services procured by the federal government meet the identified standards and possess the cloud
security certification. The executive branch should be
required to report to Congress on its decision to require
National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling
Authority cloud security certifications under FedRAMP,
on the extent of these requirements, or an explanation if
no action was taken.

Enabling Recommendations
4.5.1 Incentivize the Uptake of Secure
Cloud Services for Small and Medium-Sized
Businesses and State, Local, Tribal, and
Territorial Governments
The benefits of cloud computing for small and medium-sized enterprises and state, local, tribal, and territorial

85

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

(SLTT) governments are well documented.263 In addition to providing greater flexibility and scalability for
businesses, cloud service providers enable these entities—which may lack the financial and human capital
to invest in strong security controls or modernize their
information technology—to outsource their security to
an entity that, under the above regulation, would be held
to a higher cybersecurity standard.
The cloud security certification may have the adverse
effect of eliminating less expensive providers that do not
meet that standard. To ensure the continued availability
of affordable cloud services to smaller and medium-sized
businesses as well as SLTT governments, the U.S. government may need to provide financial incentives. Congress
should direct the Department of Commerce, Small
Business Administration, and DHS to conduct a sixmonth study to define the method of incentivizing the
adoption of these services, and report their findings and
recommendations to Congress. The ultimate goal would
be to move, to the greatest extent practicable, small and
medium-sized businesses and SLTT governments to
cost-effective cloud services.
The report should:
• Identify barriers or challenges for small and medium-sized business and SLTT governments in
purchasing or acquiring secure cloud services.
• Assess market availability, market pricing, and
affordability for small and medium-sized businesses
and SLTT governments, with particular attention
to identifying high-risk and underserved sectors or
regions.
• Estimate the timeline and cost of tax breaks for small
and medium-sized businesses and grants for SLTT
governments necessary to incentivize the adoption of
secure cloud services, as determined by the certified
secure assessment.
• In conducting this study, the U.S. government
should focus on the incentivization and adoption of
services that meet the certifications and requirements
outlined in the recommendation above.

86

4.5.2 Develop a Strategy to Secure
Foundational Internet Protocols and Email
The internet and related technologies were not designed
with security as a priority.264 For example, there are no
enforced routing authentication standards underlying
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), a foundational mechanism that enables the internet to function. Likewise,
there is no security designed into the Domain Name
System (DNS), the internet’s address book, which
ensures that users get the intended address they request.
These flaws allow DNS and BGP hijacking, common
ways for attackers to redirect traffic to websites that host
malware or collect personal information like passwords.
In addition, email represents a common vector for
initial compromise leading to cyber incidents. The
Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and
Conformance (DMARC) standard ensures that email
coming from fraudulent domains is blocked, diminishing the rate of success of phishing, spoofing, and spam
email. There have been a variety of attempts to address
these issues, including at the Federal Communications
Commission via their Communications Security
Reliability and Interoperability Council, by the NTIA,
and by industry itself in standards bodies such as the
Internet Engineering Task Force. Despite these efforts,
there remain significant concerns over the security of
these mechanisms and their potential to be exploited.
To encourage broader implementation of security
measures,265 Congress should pass a law that does the
following:
• Requires the NTIA and DHS to develop a strategy
and recommendations, in consultation with internet
service providers and civil society and academic
experts, to define common, implementable guidance
for securing the DNS and BGP.
• Requires DHS to develop a strategy and recommendations, in consultation with the information
technology sector to implement DMARC at scale,
across all U.S.-based email providers.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

• Requires DHS and the NTIA to report back to
Congress within one year with a plan to implement
security across the DNS, BGP, and email.

4.5.3 Strengthen the U.S. Government’s
Ability to Take Down Botnets
“Robot networks,” or botnets, are networks of computers
hijacked by criminals and nation-states to promulgate
their malicious activity. Criminals use botnets to spread
spam and phishing emails, to impersonate users, and to
carry out distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.266
It is estimated that as much as 30 percent of all internet
traffic could be attributable to botnets, and most of that
traffic is from DDoS attacks.267 Currently, law enforcement, working with the private sector, can dismantle
botnets when they are used to perpetrate fraud or illegal

wiretapping; however, botnets are often used for other
nefarious purposes, such as harvesting email accounts
and executing DDoS attacks against websites or other
computers. In these latter types of cases, the courts may
lack the statutory authority to issue an injunction to
disrupt the botnet. As the techniques of adversaries adapt
(i.e., moving to greater use of virtual private servers),
addressing the challenge of dismantling adversary botnets
becomes even more complex. To enable the U.S. government to better work with private industry and international partners, action is needed. In consultation with the
Department of Justice, Congress should enact Section 4
of the International Cybercrime Prevention Act.268 This
legislation would provide broader authority to disrupt all
types of illegal botnets, not just those used in fraud.269

How Do You Defeat a Botnet? (It Takes a Village)
From December 2015 to October 2018, a cybercriminal ring used malware known as “Kovter” to infect and access more than
1.7 million computers worldwide and used hidden browsers on those computers to download fake web pages. Ads were then
loaded onto those pages to falsify billions of ad views, resulting in businesses paying over $29 million for ads they believed
were viewed by actual human users. The botnet was part of a sophisticated infrastructure of command-and-control servers that
also monitored whether individually infected computers had been detected by cybersecurity companies as involved in fraud.
The botnet was controlled by three Russian nationals located abroad.270
The Department of Justice (DoJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) worked with the nonprofit National CyberForensics and Training Alliance (NCFTA) to bring together multiple private-sector and nonprofit organizations to dismantle
the botnet.271 The NCFTA played a key role by providing a collaborative information-sharing platform that enabled partners to
share cyber threat indicators, develop an operational strategy, and coordinate sequenced actions.272
Following the arrest of one of the suspects, the FBI worked with private-sector companies to reroute or “sinkhole” traffic
to prevent further victimization, executed seizure warrants to take control of 23 internet domains used by the criminals,
and worked with server-hosting companies in six countries to preserve and then take down 89 servers used to operate the
scheme.273 The DoJ and the FBI, including several FBI Legal Attachés stationed overseas, also worked closely with foreign
partners—specifically, Malaysian, Bulgarian, Estonian, German, French, Dutch, British, and Swiss authorities and Europol—to
assist with aspects of the investigation and with apprehending three indicted subjects for arrest and extradition.
Within hours, a criminal cyber infrastructure that had been generating millions of fraudulent electronic bid requests per minute
went completely dark. Eight defendants were indicted for their role in orchestrating the botnet and another fraudulent digital
advertising scheme, and to date several have appeared and entered guilty pleas in U.S. courts.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

87

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #4:

REDUCE CRITICAL DEPENDENCIES ON UNTRUSTED INFORMATION
AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
The United States should identify industries and technologies critical to national and economic security and
take steps to reduce vulnerability at a macroeconomic level (e.g., industrial strategy) and at a microeconomic
level (e.g., supply chain risk management). Of particular importance, as technology supply chains become
more complex and global, the United States has developed a growing dependence on suppliers that may
come under malign influence, introducing vulnerability into the ecosystem. To better manage these risks, the
United States should develop a more robust capacity to identify and protect against untrusted suppliers while
ensuring the presence of viable alternative suppliers for critical technologies through strategic investment.

Key Recommendation
4.6 Congress should direct the U.S. government to develop and implement an information and
communications technology industrial base strategy to ensure more trusted supply chains and the
availability of critical information and communications technologies.
The United States participates in a global marketplace.
Merely limiting the access of untrusted firms and their
technologies to our cyber ecosystem not only will be inadequate to contain their risks but, in the absence of suitable
alternatives, could instead stifle our economic growth
and deprive core aspects of the U.S. economy of access to
potentially transformative technologies. Nowhere is this
truer than in technologies like 5G, which are pursued by
strategic competitors, such as China, that bolster their
companies’ market share and subsidize their growth as a
matter of national policy—effectively dominating a global
market without having to respond to market forces.
While existing authorities under the Defense Production
Act274 empower the U.S. government to allocate resources
and ensure domestic capacity in industries that directly
serve national defense and security, they are limited in
addressing areas where the lack of domestic or trusted
industrial capacity itself constitutes a national security
and economic security risk. U.S. government mechanisms to implement Defense Production Act authorities
are similarly limited in resourcing and funding, and they
provide no clear mandate to address these problems.

88

Congress should direct the U.S. government to assess the
United States’ information and communications technology (ICT) supply chain and develop and implement an
ICT industrial base strategy to reduce dependency and
ensure greater security and availability of these critical
technologies. This strategy should focus on ensuring the
availability and integrity of trusted components, products, and materials necessary for the manufacture and
development of ICTs deemed most critical to national
and economic security. As part of this effort, the U.S.
government should assess the ability of its current structure, resources, and authorities to inform, develop, and
execute such a strategy and provide recommendations to
strengthen them. Given the global, interconnected nature
of trade and supply chains, the strategy should be formed
in coordination with trusted partners and allies. In
addition, the strategy should fully utilize the authorities
available to the federal government, including but not
limited to the Defense Production Act.
Identify and Assess Critical Dependencies: In forming the strategy, the U.S. government should conduct an in-depth analysis of market conditions to

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

comprehensively assess foreign dependencies affecting
critical information and communication technologies.
This assessment should:
• Clearly identify critical technologies, components,
and materials that the industrial base strategy seeks
to protect.
• Identify domestic and allied ICT industrial capacity.
• Identify key areas of risk where a foreign adversary
could restrict supply of a critical technology or introduce supply chain compromise at large scale.
• Identify barriers to a market-based solution.
Direct Investments for ICT Industrial Capacity and Trusted
Supply: The strategy should clearly outline national
strategic priorities and estimate what federal resources
need to be allocated to address and reduce dependencies
on untrusted foreign technology and bolster domestic or
allied production to ensure viable alternatives. The strategy should define lines of effort, assign responsibilities,
and issue accompanying executive orders or presidential
determinations necessary to carry it out. Further, the
executive branch should work with Congress to identify
additional resources and programmatic, legislative, or
structural changes necessary for its implementation.
Direct Strategic Investments in Research and Development:
The strategy must identify and address areas where
strategic investment in research and development must
now be undertaken today to prevent future overreliance
on foreign, untrusted technology in high-tech areas. This
requires the U.S. government to examine provisions and
mechanisms for strategic investment in research and
development, identifying any areas in need of updates
to meet current needs. As part of strategic research and
development investment, and in addition to providing
funding, the U.S. government will play an important role
in overcoming the understandable reluctance of industry
competitors to share space and knowledge.
Amend the Defense Production Act to Enable an ICT
Industrial Base Strategy: In addition to the amendments recommended above, Congress should amend

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

the Defense Production Act to clarify and expand the
definition of “national defense” to include mitigating
potential dependencies on foreign-sourced information
and communications technology. In addition, Congress
should consider expanding the definition of “industrial
resources” to include those needed to maintain a modern
domestic industrial base. These amendments would
empower the President to shape domestic production
under Title III of the Defense Production Act.

Enabling Recommendations
4.6.1 Increase Support to Supply Chain Risk
Management Efforts
Software, hardware, and information technology service
supply chains are major means through which foreign
actors, particularly China, can seek to introduce vulnerability and risk into the U.S. ecosystem in ways that
can neither be accounted for nor mitigated through
standard cybersecurity practices. Increasing reliance on
foreign-owned or -controlled companies introduces
new vulnerabilities into our nation’s supply chains.275
At a national level, the United States can elect to limit
market access to untrusted or high-risk vendors where
the risk of supply chain compromise is unacceptable,
such as through entities list designations, through the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or by
limits on inbound investment through the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States. At a more
tactical level, the U.S. government and the private sector
can utilize supply chain risk management techniques
to reduce their risk and minimize vulnerability. Those
undertaking both efforts require robust intelligence, both
classified and open-source, to inform their work, alert
them to adversary plans and intentions, and enable them
to assess risk when making decisions. However, while the
United States has strengthened mechanisms to address
supply chain risk over the past few years, there must be
a commensurate increase in resources for intelligence
organizations that support and enable those mechanisms.
To start correcting this gap, the 2020 National Defense
Authorization Act laid the groundwork for strengthening

89

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

the U.S. intelligence community’s capacity to provide
better supply chain intelligence: it established a Supply
Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task
Force within ODNI to improve supply chain intelligence
for U.S. government acquisition.276 The supply chain task
force should explore additional avenues to expand this
support to critical infrastructure, including:
• Leveraging the ongoing work and findings of the
DHS-led ICT Supply Chain Risk Management Task
Force277 to work with the private sector in order
to identify both its needs and its mechanisms to
improve information sharing on supply chain risk.
• Determining appropriate funding, resourcing, and
authorities for U.S. intelligence community efforts
to aggregate all-source information relating to supply
chains,278 share strategic supply chain warning and

counterintelligence risk assessments with public and
private partners, and serve as the central and shared
knowledge resource for threats to supply chain
activities or supply chain integrity.279
• Understanding and defining additional measures
the U.S. government can adopt in making greater
use of publicly available and proprietary sources in
informing supply chain and foreign investment risk
assessments.

4.6.2 Commit Significant and Consistent
Funding toward Research and Development
in Emerging Technologies
The federal government has a long, storied history of spurring technological revolutions by funding and engaging in
basic and applied research. By pursuing discoveries in

Should the United States Have a High-Tech Industrial Strategy?
In the 1980s, the U.S. semiconductor industry faced fierce competition from Japan. Growing dependence on Japanesesourced semiconductors, and the United States’ diminishing industrial capacity, alarmed U.S. officials who understood the
fundamental importance of maintaining this capability for both national competitiveness and national defense. Recognizing
the need to regain competitiveness, more than a dozen U.S.-based computer chip manufacturers established a consortium
called Sematech in partnership with the Reagan administration. With the objective of leapfrogging Japanese chip makers by
the 1990s,280 the Reagan administration successfully supported the effort with public subsidies, over five years appropriating
$500 million in funding from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and the Department of Defense (approximately
$1.125 billion today, adjusted for inflation).
Today, the United States faces an even greater challenge to its industrial might. Countries like China are growing increasingly
dominant in the production and assembly of critical current and next-generation telecommunications equipment. But whereas
the Japanese semiconductor industry grew out of genuine free market innovation, Chinese tech giants have benefited significantly from Chinese government support to build their massive market share. In other words, the playing field is uneven and
global markets are neither free nor fair.
While the Chinese tech giants have provided a wake-up call that might normally spur the competitors in the telecommunications industry, both U.S. companies and, with some exceptions, those of our trusted allies and partners have fallen so far
behind industry leaders that regaining competitiveness may prove impossible without government support. As technology
supply chains become more complex and global, the U.S. government must work with partners to ensure that trusted industry
can provide the United States and its allies with trusted supply of critical technologies now and into the future.

90

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

science and technology well before a path toward commercial viability is certain or even understood, federally
backed research is able to drive innovation in the absence
of the nearer-term returns on investment traditionally
required for commercial R&D—with the internet itself
being perhaps the most notable breakthrough. Emerging
technologies such as artificial intelligence and quantum
information science (quantum computing, quantum key
encryption, etc.) pose both opportunities and risks, but we
have yet to fully understand how to exploit and prepare for
them, much less commercialize or deploy them, without
further research. The federal government can best aid both
the public and private sectors in their research endeavors
through the application of consistent, significant funding
to both fuel their efforts and protect them from theft.

In 2016, a federal interagency working group found
that one of the barriers to advanced, high-performance
computing breakthroughs was a broad lack of consistent
funding.281 In 2019, the National Security Commission
on Artificial Intelligence determined that “Federal R&D
funding for AI has not kept pace with the revolutionary
potential it holds or with aggressive investments by
competitors.”282The long-term, multiyear nature of this
research requires institutions to carefully plan research
and development campaigns across time.
To ensure continuity of effort, Congress should appropriate consistent funding and task the executive branch,
including the National Science Foundation, the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the Intelligence

Huawei and ZTE:
International Presence

Confirmed network/vendor
MOU / Testing with Huawei
Huawei ban confirmed
(Yash Mishra, “Here Are the Countries That Allowed Huawei to Build 5G,” Huawei Central, August 30, 2019,
https://www.huaweicentral.com/here-are-the-countries-that-allowed-huawei-to-build-5g-list/.)

Note: Data as of August 2019. Danish carriers have not selected Huawei or ZTE.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

91

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Advanced Research Projects Agency, to develop and
implement the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s
2021 research and development priorities:283
• Building and leveraging a diverse, highly skilled
American workforce.
• Creating and supporting research environments that
reflect American values.
• Supporting transformative research of high-risk and
potentially high-reward technologies.
• Leveraging the power of data.
• Building, strengthening, and expanding strategic
multisector partnerships.

4.6.3 Strengthen the Capacity of the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the
United States
The U.S. government must consider and implement acceptable measures to ensure the resilience of the supply of technologies deemed critical to national security and economic
prosperity. This requires taking disparate measures to both
stem the flow of foreign investment into U.S. companies
and stop the loss of technologies to competitors through
state-sponsored industrial espionage. The Committee on
Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) is the
primary mechanism through which the U.S. government
combats these threats. While recent reforms enacted in
the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act
(FIRRMA) bolstered the Committee, the executive branch
should do more to help it achieve its goals.
Specifically, the executive branch should:
• Direct the Committee to more aggressively review
bankruptcy buyouts and restructuring, as well
as early-stage venture capital and private equity
investment.
• Direct departments and agencies to identify inconsistencies, gaps, or redundancies in programs across
the federal government meant to support department
and agency CFIUS reviews and compliance work,
and identify areas where FIRRMA funds can be used
to centralize or consolidate programs as managed
services to fill gaps and reduce redundancies.

92

• Direct departments and agencies to conduct a
comprehensive review of budgetary shortfalls for
programs and work envisioned under FIRRMA and
work with Congress to ensure that departments and
agencies have funding sufficient to carry out their
respective CFIUS programs.

4.6.4 Invest in the National Cyber Moonshot
Initiative
In 2018, the President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee determined
that “[t]he United States is at an inflection point:
simultaneously faced with a progressively worsening
cybersecurity threat environment and an ever-increasing
dependence on Internet technologies fundamental to
public safety, economic prosperity, and overall way of
life. Our national security is now inexorably linked to
cybersecurity.” The committee called for a “moonshot”
initiative to emphasize the “national prioritization,
collective action, and accelerated innovation” required to
solve this grand challenge, akin to putting a human on
the moon.284
While the National Cyber Moonshot Team is making
progress on the 10-year plan with its six pillars and
grand challenges, its success ultimately depends on
consistent and enduring attention and support. The
initial Cybersecurity Moonshot report reinforces this
point, stating that “the level of U.S. Government funding
and investment in cybersecurity should exceed current
levels by orders of magnitude and must be sustained
at wartime-like levels for the decade timespan of the
initiative.”285 However, the federal government’s fiscal
year 2019 and proposed 2020 budgets failed to appropriate funds commensurate with the needs of the National
Cyber Moonshot efforts. Congress and the executive
branch must therefore actively engage with the National
Cyber Moonshot Council to identify and appropriate
the funds necessary to achieve the goals of the Moonshot
initiative, and to identify and implement methods to
permit and encourage private-sector participation at an
effective level.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #5:

STRENGTHEN NATIONAL SYSTEMIC DATA SECURITY
The security and privacy of Americans’ data should be substantially and systemically improved, especially
as data becomes increasingly central to the modern digital economy and our everyday lives. In our current
ecosystem, there is insufficient legal consensus on the appropriate use and security of personal and sensitive
data, even as data breaches are increasingly delivering a treasure trove of information to malicious actors.
The information stolen from American entrepreneurs, public officials, industry leaders, everyday citizens,
and even clandestine operatives is fueling social engineering and espionage campaigns against U.S. firms and
agencies. This entanglement of private data security and national security reveals the need to establish clear
and consistent legal and technical frameworks to protect the information of individuals and firms, minimize
the likelihood of their loss or manipulation, and make the “big data” economy safe for everyday Americans.

Key Recommendation
4.7 Congress should pass a national data security and privacy protection law establishing and
standardizing requirements for the collection, retention, and sharing of user data.
The creation, storage, transmission, and analysis of
data are core components of the modern economy.
Seven of the United States’ 15 most profitable firms are
software or telecommunications companies, and the
technology industry as a whole represents more than
10 percent of overall economic output.286 The private
information and behavior of individual consumers and
businesses are fueling this industry and powering a new
wave of data-centric commerce. This concentration
and monetization of Americans’ personal and business
data is creating new industries and value—but also new
opportunities for the unintentional mishandling or the
malicious misuse of that data. The loss or exposure of
sensitive information is becoming more common and
more severe, and each instance provides malign actors
with additional opportunities for exploitation, espionage, or attack.
These dynamics have spurred advanced economies
around the world into action, from Europe’s General
Data Protection Regulation to Japan’s Act on the
Protection of Personal Information to California’s
Consumer Privacy Act. In the absence of congressional
leadership, these competing frameworks threaten to
splinter the digital economy, confuse efforts to secure

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

users’ personal data, and imperil the ability of American
companies to compete globally.
Congress should pass legislation standardizing requirements that are enduring for the safe and appropriate
handling of personal data. This is a necessary step to
make the modern data-driven economy safe yet flexible
for all Americans, provide the regulatory certainty needed
for U.S. companies’ continued innovation and prosperity,
and ensure that the global digital marketplace remains
open, interoperable, reliable, and secure.
Specifically, this legislation should establish:
• National minimum common standards for the collection, retention, analysis, and third-party sharing of
personal data.
• Definitions of personal data, to include that which
can be linked, directly or indirectly, to individuals or
households.
• Thresholds for what entities are covered by this
legislation.
• Timelines for deleting, correcting, or porting personal data upon request by the appropriate persons.
• A clear mandate for the Federal Trade Commission
to enforce these standards with civil penalties.

93

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Any legislation should also explicitly create the expectation that covered entities will exert reasonable care
and security regarding the protection of all relevant data
they hold. Data security is a necessary first step for data
privacy, because if the security of data is not guaranteed,
its privacy cannot be either. Legislative proposals on this
critical issue are pending, and Congress should seek to
find a consensus.

Enabling Recommendation
4.7.1 Pass a National Breach Notification Law
Data breach notification laws require an entity that has
been subject to a data breach—regardless of cause—to
notify its customers and other parties and take steps to
remediate injuries caused by the breach.287 While such
laws have been adopted in some form by all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the
Virgin Islands, there is no national standard for such
notification.288 As a result, Americans’ data is subject to
a patchwork of varying protections. A national framework is needed to standardize consumers’ expectations

94

and provide regulatory certainty to American businesses
engaging in interstate and global commerce.
Congress should pass a national breach notification law
that:
• Preempts the 54 existing state, district, and territorial
data breach notification laws.
• Establishes a threshold for what would be considered
a covered “breach.”
• Requires the notification and transmission of
relevant forensic data to the appropriate law enforcement and cybersecurity authorities and other relevant
anonymized data to authorized data-gathering bodies, such as the Bureau of Cyber Statistics proposed
above (recommendation 4.3).
• Sets standards and timelines for notifying victims.
• Sets criteria that determine when victims should
receive free credit monitoring or other data and
identity protections.
• Deconflicts with existing federal regulation for
private-sector and other non-federal entities.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY

Benefits and Challenges of End-to-End Encryption
There is broad consensus across industry and the government on the importance of strong encryption. Advanced encryption of
data in motion (i.e., as it is being transmitted) and at rest (i.e., as it is stored) should be a cornerstone of responsible data security.
This includes, for example, using mature, well-researched protocols such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) to shield email, web
browsing, and other important internet traffic from interception or modification by malicious actors. Strong encryption helps
prevent or limit data breaches, and when data is breached it mitigates the harm to businesses, the government, and individuals.
One particular implementation of encryption, known as “end-to-end,” is the subject of considerable debate. End-to-end
encryption enables the transmission of data in such a way that only the communicating parties have the ability to access the
data being secured—intermediaries, such as the company that provides the communication system, do not. Broad implementation of this form of encryption could improve the systemic data security of the overall cyber ecosystem, though it may also
conceal the activities of criminals and shield them from government action. The debate over balancing these concerns has
run for decades, but recently it has been energized by the rapid adoption of end-to-end encrypted communications. Between
WhatsApp, Signal, Telegram, and iMessage, numerous companies around the world are now offering end-to-end encrypted
messaging services to more than 100 million Americans and 1.5 billion global citizens.289
One reason the debate over end-to-end encryption has been so difficult is that its benefits and costs are so hard to compare.
As end-to-end encryption is more comprehensively adopted, and beyond the domestic data security benefit described above,
it helps protect democratic values around the globe by making unfettered surveillance more difficult in certain repressive
nations where such values are under siege. The United Nations’ Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has
observed that end-to-end encryption is becoming an important tool for pushing back against a rising tide of increasingly lethal
high-tech illiberalism and for protecting global freedom of expression.290 In this way, end-to-end encryption is currently making
repression more difficult and less effective, imposing persistent costs on authoritarian governments.
This form of encryption is a double-edged sword, however, as it also challenges democratically authorized and judicially circumscribed access to data that law enforcement agencies require for public safety and security. End-to-end encryption is currently
impeding the government’s ability to obtain lawful access to electronic evidence in investigations ranging from cyber intrusions
and attacks to crimes threatening serious harms, like child exploitation, gang violence and drug trafficking, and domestic and
international terrorism. For example, attributing responsibility for malicious cyber activity to particular actors—a necessary precursor to many law enforcement responses—can be difficult and slow without access to relevant encrypted data content.
The quest for solutions to these issues should be informed by the core values that unite citizens of free and open societies. All
government access to data should be, as it is in the United States, tightly circumscribed by protections like those in our Fourth
Amendment. The United States requires infrastructure that enables citizens to confidently and securely conduct their affairs
without unwarranted infringement of their essential liberties and that incorporates methods to protect them from harm. While
the Commission does not express a position on the growing adoption of end-to-end encryption, the Commission does assert
that both the government and the private sector should look to the future with a dual mandate on which all agree: strong
encryption can and must underpin the essential functions of a free, open, interoperable, secure, and resilient global internet,
but appropriately authorized and publicly accountable government officials must also be able to pursue criminal elements
exploiting the internet to prey upon innocent persons.
This debate is difficult, but the U.S. government should rely on these principles to engage with the trade-offs of end-to-end
encryption honestly—while recognizing that market forces and other countries (democratic and not) are rapidly shaping the
encryption reality.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

95

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY
COLLABORATION WITH THE PRIVATE
SECTOR

L

ayered cyber deterrence requires reshaping how the
U.S. government coordinates with the private sector
to address systemic cyber risk and counter growing cyber
threats. The majority of assets, functions, and entities in
the cyber domain that are attractive targets for adversaries are owned and operated by the private sector. As a
consequence, cyber defense, while a shared responsibility,
will depend significantly on the underlying efforts of the
owners and operators of private networks and infrastructure. National defense therefore takes a very different
shape in cyberspace, where the government mainly plays
a supporting and enabling role in security and defense
and is not the primary actor. The U.S. government and
industry thus must arrive at a new social contract of
shared responsibility to secure the nation in cyberspace.
This “collective defense” in cyberspace requires that the
public and private sectors work from a place of truly
shared situational awareness and that each leverages its
unique comparative advantages for the common defense.
This pillar attempts to operationalize cybersecurity
collaboration with the private sector by organizing and
focusing U.S. government efforts on areas where they can
have an outsized impact. Doing so requires improving the
integration of public and private cyber defense efforts as
well as ruthlessly prioritizing support to private entities
and concentrating on areas where the U.S. government
has an asymmetric advantage. Specifically, this pillar
focuses on three strategic objectives.
First, this pillar creates a framework for improving and
prioritizing U.S. government cybersecurity support to
critical elements of the private sector. Because the federal
government’s resources and capabilities are limited, it must
prioritize its contributions to the defense of systemically
important critical infrastructure—that is, critical infrastructure entities that manage systems and assets whose

96

disruption could have cascading, destabilizing effects on
U.S. national security, economic security, and public health
and safety. While private-sector entities are responsible
for the defense and security of their networks, the U.S.
government must bring to bear its unique authorities and
resources, as well as diplomatic, economic, military, law
enforcement, and intelligence capabilities, to support these
actors in their defense efforts.
Second, this pillar sets out a plan to focus U.S. government efforts on areas where it can add the most value:
namely, on building better situational awareness of
cyber threats. Information sharing is an important part
of public-private collaboration, but it is not an end in
and of itself. It is a means of building better situational
awareness of cyber threats, which can then inform the
actions of both the private sector and the government.
Here the U.S. government has a unique capacity to take
in information from disparate sources, including the
intelligence community, and integrate that information
to produce a more holistic picture of and better insights
into the national collective understanding of threats.
Third, this pillar identifies the need for the U.S. government to better integrate its own cyber defense security
efforts with those of the private sector. To confront
this challenge, the U.S. government must both better
understand the system of centers and missions within
the federal government and how they can be more fully
integrated into the execution of the national cybersecurity
mission and facilitate better joint, coordinated campaign
planning that includes the private sector. To those ends,
the U.S. government should conduct a comprehensive
systems analysis review of federal cyber defense and security centers and missions, with a view toward diminishing
barriers to collaboration across the federal government
and between the public and private sectors.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #1:

IMPROVE GOVERNMENT SUPPORT TO PRIVATE-SECTOR OPERATIONS
The U.S. government should improve government support to private-sector cyber defensive operations.
However, the federal government has limited resources and capabilities, and should prioritize the
defense of systemically important critical infrastructure—the critical infrastructure entities that manage
systems and assets whose disruption could have cascading, destabilizing effects on U.S. national security,
economic security, or public health and safety. While the U.S. government has taken steps to assist these
high-risk entities through Section 9 of Executive Order 13636, that effort falls short of codifying or fully
implementing the social contract of shared responsibility and partnership in cybersecurity—and it also
does not empower the U.S. government with the resources and authorities necessary to defend them.

Key Recommendation
5.1 Congress should codify the concept of “systemically important critical infrastructure,”
whereby entities responsible for systems and assets that underpin national critical functions are
ensured the full support of the U.S. government and shoulder additional security requirements
consistent with their unique status and importance.
Through Section 9 of Executive Order 13636, the
Obama administration took vital steps to recognize that
not all critical infrastructure is of equal importance to
the preservation of public health and safety, economic
security, or national security.291 The systemically important critical infrastructure (SICI) entities, and their most
vital systems and assets, are focal points of leverage for
nation-state adversaries, allowing them to scale up the
effects of cyber campaigns and thus the risk they can pose
to the United States in peacetime and in crisis.292 Both
the private sector and the U.S. government have a vested
interest in protecting these systems and assets and have
unique responsibilities for their security and resilience.
The U.S. government must be assured that these companies are taking their security responsibilities seriously,
honoring the public trust that appertains to the services
and functions they provide, and participating in fully
collaborative joint security efforts. Private-sector entities
should likewise trust that the U.S. government is fully
leveraging its unique authorities and resources to support
their security operations, both in fulfillment of its responsibility to defend against and respond to nation-state

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

attacks and in recognition of their unique national
security importance—and the public good they provide.
While Section 9 of Executive Order 13636 recognizes
this relationship and acknowledges the social contract
that underlies it, it does not endow the U.S. government
with any new requirements, resources, or authorities to
support SICI; nor does Section 9 designation place any
additional expectations on the entities that receive it.
To address this gap, Congress should codify into law the
concept of “systemically important critical infrastructure,” whereby entities responsible for systemically critical
systems and assets are granted special assistance from the
U.S. government and shoulder additional security and
information-sharing requirements befitting their unique
status and importance. While these entities are ultimately responsible for the defense and security of their
networks, the U.S. government can and should bring to
bear its unique authorities, resources, and intelligence
capabilities to support these entities in their defense—
and assume greater responsibility in instances in which
they are directly threatened by nation-states, designated

97

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

transnational criminal groups, or terrorist organizations.
Separate, distinct designation and requirements should
be established for sectors that have a unique relationship with the federal government, such as the Defense
Industrial Base.
Identification and Designation: Congress should direct the
executive branch, through the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) and in consultation with the appropriate
sector-specific agencies, to develop a process to identify
key systems and assets underpinning certain critical
functions and designate the entities responsible for their
management, operations, and security as “systemically
important critical infrastructure.” These designations
should be reviewed and updated as part of the regularly
occurring National Risk Management Cycle led by DHS
(recommendation 3.2.2). Designated entities should be
codified in an unclassified determination issued by the
President, while the specific systems and assets that led to
the designation should be classified.
In defining the critical functions by which to designate
systemically important critical infrastructure, the U.S. government should focus on national critical functions that:
• Directly support or underpin national security
programs or government or military operations.
• Constitute essential economic functions or underpin
the national distribution of goods and services.
• Support or underpin public health and safety or are
so foundational that their disruption could endanger
human life on a massive scale.
Insulation from Liability: Entities designated as systemically important critical infrastructure would be shielded
from liability in instances when covered systems and
assets are targeted, attacked, compromised, or disrupted
through a cyberattack by a nation-state, designated
transnational criminal group, or terrorist organization. To
qualify, designated entities would need to have demonstrated good-faith compliance with all requirements set as
a consequence of their designation.

98

Government Program Requirements: Congress should
direct the executive branch to define government programs in which entities designated as systemically important critical infrastructure would be required to participate
as a consequence of their designation; this list should be
updated regularly. These programs should include federal
government information-sharing programs, national risk
identification and assessment efforts, and other relevant
federal programs meant to assist the private sector in
cyber defense and security.
Security Certification: Congress should direct the executive branch to develop a “Security Certification” for
systemically important critical infrastructure and a
mechanism, devised in consultation with the private
sector, for SICI entities to certify their compliance on a
consistent basis. DHS and the Department of Defense
(DoD), in coordination with sector-specific agencies,
should establish common and sector-specific standards
and expectations for the governance and execution of
security operations for this certification. In establishing
these certifications, the executive branch should seek to
reduce redundancy and regulatory burden by looking
to existing regulatory requirements or existing security
regimes rather than establishing new ones.
Prioritized Federal Assistance: The executive branch
should define a process by which designated entities can,
through DHS, request expedited federal assistance in
instances when they have been compromised or attacked
by a malicious cyber actor. This process should define the
information required to submit a request, the timeline
for response, and the criteria used by federal departments
and agencies to evaluate and approve requests.
Indications and Warning and Intelligence Support:
Congress should explicitly establish in law that sharing
intelligence with U.S.-owned entities designated as SICI
does not constitute unlawful favoring of one entity
over another. In addition, Congress should direct the
executive branch to define mechanisms and procedures,

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

through DHS and the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence and in consultation with sector-specific
agencies, for enhanced collaboration among designated
entities, sector-specific agencies, and the U.S. intelligence
community.

Enabling Recommendations
5.1.1 Review and Update Intelligence
Authorities to Increase Intelligence Support
to the Broader Private Sector
The U.S. intelligence community is not currently
resourced to fully support the private sector in cyber
defense and security. While the intelligence community is formidable in informing security operations in
instances when the U.S. government is the defender, it
lacks appropriate policies and processes to do so when
primary responsibility falls outside of the U.S. government. Intelligence policies and procedures remain
outdated; they have not been sufficiently modernized
to account for the unique challenges of cyberspace or
the flexibility and ingenuity of malicious foreign actors.
As a result, the intelligence community continues to be
significantly limited in its ability to maintain awareness
of evolving cyber threats and provide warning to U.S.
entities when they are being targeted. While codifying systemically important critical infrastructure will
ensure stronger intelligence support and indications
and warning for the most critical systems and assets,
the intelligence community will still be limited in its
ability to support critical infrastructure that falls outside
of that designation. Thus the U.S. government must
address more general limitations in its ability to provide
intelligence support to all private sector stakeholders
and associated organizations, such as information
sharing and analysis centers (ISACs) and the Financial
Systemic Analysis and Resilience Center (FSARC).
To that end, Congress should direct the executive
branch to conduct a six-month comprehensive review
of intelligence policies, procedures, and resources to

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

identify and address key limitations in the ability of the
intelligence community to provide intelligence support
to the private sector. The executive branch should report
its findings to Congress upon conclusion of its review,
which should include specific recommendations or
plans to address challenges identified in the report. The
review should:
• Examine U.S. foreign intelligence surveillance
authorities to identify and address limitations in
collection for cyber defense missions supporting
private-sector stakeholders.
• Review policies to identify limitations in the intelligence community’s ability to share threat intelligence
information with the private sector, including
accounting for instances when national security
outweighs concerns over preferential treatment.
• Review downgrade and declassification procedures
for cyber threat intelligence to improve the speed and
timeliness of its release; consider defining criteria and
procedures for expedited declassification and release
of certain types of intelligence.
• Examine current and projected mission requirements of the National Security Agency’s (NSA)
Cybersecurity Directorate, identify current funding
gaps, and recommend budgetary changes needed to
ensure that NSA meets expectations for increased
support to the nation’s cybersecurity effort.
• Review cyber-related information-sharing consent
processes, including consent to monitor agreements,
and assess gaps and opportunities for greater standardization and simplification while ensuring privacy
and civil liberty protections.
• Review existing statutes governing “national security
systems”—including National Security Directive 42,
which establishes executive policy on the security of
national security telecommunications and information systems—and assess their ability to provide the
National Security Agency with sufficient authority to
conduct its mission in protecting systems and assets
that are critical to national security.

99

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

5.1.2 Strengthen and Codify Processes
for Identifying Broader Private-Sector
Cybersecurity Intelligence Needs and
Priorities
Understanding the intelligence needs and gaps of private-sector entities is critical in ensuring that the U.S. government is able to provide focused, actionable intelligence
in support of their cybersecurity operations. While the
preceding recommendations focus on removing barriers to
or limitations in the collection or production of intelligence and its distribution to the private sector, they will
be fundamentally hindered if the U.S. government lacks
the processes to best serve the private sector and answer
its security requirements. However, existing processes to
solicit private-sector input into U.S. intelligence needs
and collection requirements are inconsistent, too narrow
in scope, and lack sufficient detail. For instance, existing
processes compile self-identified intelligence gaps but do
not account for common vulnerabilities, such as common
technology or third-party services, that would be targeted
by an intelligent nation-state adversary. This information,
if specific enough, can be used to provide indications and
warnings and focused intelligence to private-sector entities
if and when the intelligence community detects they are
being or will be targeted by a malicious actor.
Congress should therefore direct and resource the federal
government to establish a formal process to solicit and
compile private-sector input to inform national intelligence priorities, collection requirements, and more
focused U.S. intelligence support to private-sector
cybersecurity operations. This process should:
• Be led by the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence and DHS, in coordination with DoD
and other sector-specific agencies.
• Identify common technologies or interdependencies—areas of high risk that are likely to be targeted
by intelligent nation-state adversaries.
• Seek to identify intelligence gaps, priorities, and
needs across the private sector and state, local, tribal,
and territorial entities.

100

• Run parallel with and be tied to National Risk
Management Cycle (recommendation 3.1.1) processes for risk identification and assessment, as the
same information that informs sector-specific and
cross-sector risk can be used to guide U.S. intelligence efforts to provide indications and warnings
and more focused intelligence.
• Empower sector-specific agencies and make them
accountable to work with their sectors, including
sector-coordinating councils and ISACs, to identify
specific critical lines of businesses, technologies, and
processes and work directly with the intelligence
community to convey specific details.
• Codify legal protections for the types of information
that would be routinely shared as part of this process,
ensuring that such information is protected and
insulated from public disclosure.

5.1.3 Empower Departments and Agencies
to Serve Administrative Subpoenas in
Support of Threat and Asset Response
Activities
While the U.S. government has a unique understanding
of threat and vulnerability, there are limits to its ability
to systematically identify those who are vulnerable or
compromised, notify them, and assist them in mitigating
or reducing vulnerability. In particular, the inability to
identify the owners and operators of known vulnerable
or compromised online systems hinders the U.S. government’s efforts to notify and, upon request, assist private-sector entities in their security operations. Current
authorities are limited exclusively to certain criminal contexts, where evidence of a compromise exists, and do not
address instances in which systems are merely vulnerable.
To address this gap, Congress should consider granting
certain departments and agencies subpoena authority in
support of their threat and asset response activities, while
ensuring appropriate liability protections for cooperating
private-sector network owners.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

Congress should extend existing law enforcement
administrative subpoena authority, currently defined
under 18 U.S. Code § 3486, for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the United States Secret Service to
include violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act,
18 U.S. Code § 1030.

Congress should pass the Cybersecurity Vulnerability
Identification and Notification Act of 2019 to grant tailored authority to the Director of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to serve administrative subpoenas so that the owners of online systems
with known vulnerabilities can be identified, enabling
asset response activities and preventing future intrusion.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #2:

IMPROVE COMBINED SITUATIONAL AWARENESS OF CYBER THREATS
The U.S. government should improve combined situational awareness of cyber threats to better support
its own and private-sector cyber defensive efforts. For the better part of a decade, expanding public-private
collaboration in cybersecurity was synonymous with sharing threat information. Information sharing is
an important part of public-private collaboration, certainly, but it is not an end in and of itself. Rather it
enables better situational awareness of cyber threats, which can then inform the actions of both the private
sector and the government. Truly shared situational awareness is the foundation on which operational
collaboration is built and enabled. The U.S. government should leverage its unique, comparative
advantages to improve the national collective understanding of the threat, including the information
available to the intelligence community and a capacity to integrate information from disparate sources—
both public and private. Similarly, the U.S. government must create the structures and processes to work
with private-sector entities that have unique insights of their own and a different, and in some cases more
comprehensive, view of threats impacting domestic critical infrastructure.

Key Recommendation
5.2 Congress should establish and fund a Joint Collaborative Environment, a common and
interoperable environment for the sharing and fusing of threat information, insight, and other
relevant data across the federal government and between the public and private sectors.
While the U.S. government has taken a number of steps
to develop situational awareness in cyberspace, there continue to be significant limitations on its ability to develop
a comprehensive picture of the threat. Federal departments and agencies each maintain a number of programs
that can provide insight into threats affecting U.S. government networks and critical infrastructure. However,
the data or information is not routinely shared or

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

cross-correlated at the speed and scale necessary for rapid
detection and identification. This fragmented approach
presents further challenges in integrating with the private
sector, both as a contributor to and as a beneficiary of
U.S. government insight, causing confusion and adding
significant burden for the private sector in public-private
information-sharing efforts. The U.S. government must
take steps to shift the burden of integration onto itself,

101

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

establishing the mechanisms and enforceable procedures
to build the situational awareness necessary for its own
operations and for forging true operational collaboration
with the private sector.
To that end, Congress should establish a “Joint
Collaborative Environment”, a common, cloud-based
environment in which the federal government’s unclassified and classified cyber threat information, malware
forensics, and network data from monitoring programs
are made commonly available for query and analysis—to the greatest extent possible.293 Initial stages will
focus on the integration of programs across the federal
government and with owners and operators of systemically important critical infrastructure, while subsequent
phases will focus on extending this environment to
larger constituencies of critical infrastructure, including
ISACs. This program would make real the promise of
a “whole-of-government” and public-private approach
to cybersecurity, ensuring that network data, cyber
threat intelligence, and malware forensics from each
department or agency and the private sector are available at machine speed for comprehensive detection and
analysis. The Joint Collaborative Environment should
support federal cyber centers, an integrated cyber center
at CISA (recommendation 5.3), and a planning cell
under CISA (recommendation 5.4).
Design, Development, and Planning: Given the complexity
of such a program, Congress should allow for a multiyear
design and development cycle that proceeds in phases.
Initial phases should focus on designing appropriate
interoperable standards, affording for integration of
all covered data programs, and ensuring that disparate
databases or centers can be compatible and interoperable
at machine speed and scale. Subsequent phases should
focus on sharing high-level insights and more exquisite
data—as well as addressing challenges introduced by
wider inclusion of private-sector partners.
Program Management: Congress should designate DHS
and the NSA to act as the primary program managers and

102

lead agencies charged with developing and maintaining the
environment in unclassified and classified space, respectively. Where feasible, unclassified data should be routinely
mirrored to a classified environment, and integrated with
classified data, to provide enrichment, to broaden context, and to inform and enable indications and warning.
Analytic tools should be deployed across classification
levels to leverage all relevant data sets as appropriate.
Designation of Programs: Congress should direct the executive branch to designate, as part of the environment’s
development process and on a routine basis after it is fully
operational, federal programs required to participate,
feed into, and/or be interoperable with the environment.
These federal programs should include any programs that
generate, collect, or disseminate data or information in
the detection, identification, analysis, and monitoring of
cyber threats, such as:
• Government network-monitoring and intrusion
detection programs.
• Cyber threat indicator–sharing programs.
• Government-sponsored network sensors or network-monitoring programs for the private sector or
for state, local, tribal, and territorial governments.
• Incident response and cybersecurity technical assistance programs.
• Malware forensics and reverse-engineering programs.
Information-Sharing Protections: The law should direct
that any private-sector information-sharing programs
participating in the Joint Collaborative Environment
are extended protections analogous to those afforded by
the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015. The
availability of data within this environment is contingent
on these protections. When appropriate, the environment
will share raw, anonymized data to inform the work of
the Bureau of Cyber Statistics (recommendation 4.3), in
compliance with that bureau’s charter.
Data Standardization and Interoperability: Congress
should direct the executive branch to establish an
interagency council, chaired by the program managers,

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

that sets data standards and requirements for program
participation and interoperability. Data standards and
interoperability requirements should be formed in a
public-private process to ensure the full inclusion of the
private sector in program design. Membership should
include any department or agency that oversees participating, designated programs. The council would be
empowered to recommend budgetary changes necessary
for programs to make technical or operational adjustments required for integration and interoperability, to
establish and maintain the environment, and to ensure
that the environment has adequate security to prevent
breaches and to guard against and detect false data
insertion.
Modules and Tooling: Congress should appropriate necessary funds to DHS and the NSA to develop, purchase,
and deploy tools and analytical software that can be
applied and shared to manipulate, transform, and display
data and other identified needs.
Data Governance and Privacy: In developing the program, the federal government should establish the
procedures and data governance structures necessary
to protect the sensitivity of data, comply with federal
regulations and statutes, and respect existing consent
agreements with the private sector and other non-federal entities. The federal government should take steps
to make preexisting and all future consent agreements
compliant with inclusion into the environment and
bring preexisting agreements and programs into compliance with the program.
Public-Private Partnership: The environment should be
designed with the goal of including the participation of
the private sector and information sharing and analysis
organizations/centers, both to feed into and to benefit
from the data and analytical insight the environment
would provide. Initially, elements of systemically important critical infrastructure, as part of their designation, will
be encouraged to share cyber threat indicators, malware
forensics, and data from network sensor programs.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Enabling Recommendations
5.2.1 Expand and Standardize Voluntary
Threat Detection Programs
Current voluntary network monitoring and threat
detection programs294 are essential in advancing a better
understanding of threats affecting U.S. critical infrastructure. These voluntary programs, through which the
U.S. government provides sensors or funding to monitor
private-sector networks, can enable the rapid detection
and identification of cyber threats—whether they are isolated incidents or part of a larger, coordinated campaign.
While programs like DHS’s Enhanced Cybersecurity
Services Program and the Department of Energy’s Cyber
Risk Information Sharing Program show great promise,
their usefulness has been hindered by a limited scale of
deployment and insufficient coverage. In addition, coverage and deployment have not been centrally planned
or coordinated to reflect strategic assessment of risk and
need. Properly implemented and deployed at sufficient
scale, these programs could form the foundation of a
virtual “early warning network” in cyberspace, providing
a vital missing piece in U.S. government and private-sector situational awareness.
To achieve this goal, the U.S. government should take
steps, through the Joint Collaborative Environment’s
interagency council, to expand and more centrally fund,
manage, and deploy these programs and ensure their
interoperability with broader federal cyber threat–sharing
and integration efforts. In addition, Congress should
identify programs that should be excluded from or have
special handling in this expansion and standardization,
such as law enforcement and domestic counterintelligence collection efforts.

5.2.2 Pass a National Cyber Incident
Reporting Law
The government’s cyber incident situational awareness,
its ability to detect coordinated cyber campaigns, and
its risk identification and assessment efforts rely on
comprehensive data. However, there are insufficient

103

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

federal and state laws and policies requiring companies
to report incidents that impact or threaten to impact
business operations. While mandated reporting for
regulatory purposes and voluntary information-sharing
protections exist, the federal government lacks a mandate to systematically collect cyber incident information
reliably and at the scale necessary to inform situational
awareness.
To address this shortcoming, Congress should authorize
DHS and Department of Justice (DOJ) to establish
requirements for critical infrastructure entities to report
cyber incidents to the federal government. In crafting
this requirement, DHS and DOJ should collaborate with
public- and private-sector entities to identify the types of
critical infrastructure entities to which it should apply.
This information should be minimized, anonymized,
and shared as statistical data with the Bureau of Cyber
Statistics (recommendation 4.3).
• DHS and DOJ should, in coordination with sector-specific agencies and the private sector, define the
thresholds and types of cyber incidents that would be
required to be reported under this law.
• DHS and DOJ should define clear mechanisms,
processes, the format, and information required
in reporting such an incident. These specifications
should include processes necessary to protect privacy
and minimize personally identifiable information.
• Reported incidents may not be used to inform or
drive punitive measures taken by regulatory agencies;
however, reporting under this requirement does not
trigger, or obviate, reporting requirements under
existing regulations—nor does it shield covered

104

entities from regulatory action if violations are
discovered through other means.
• As the relevant sector-specific agency and contracting
party, DoD may define additional mechanisms,
process, format, and reporting information and
regulations required for the Defense Industrial Base.

5.2.3 Amend the Pen Register Trap and Trace
(PRTT) Statute to Enable Better Identification
of Malicious Actors
Current electronic surveillance laws do not allow companies to engage in defensive measures to fully identify
actors or infrastructure that is being used to target or
attack them. This information is often transitory, and
immediate action may be needed to ensure that identifying information is preserved. Current ambiguities center
on certain cybersecurity techniques such as establishing
a “honeypot”—that is, direct action taken by an entity
outside of its own network, such as following an actor
after a compromise of its own system. Amending PRTT
to include existing exemptions to the Wiretap Act found
at 18 U.S. Code § 2511(2) would allow an avenue for
defenders to receive information about attackers that
is currently restricted to “Electronic Communication
Providers.” To reduce ambiguity and allow the private
sector a broader range of defensive techniques, Congress
should amend 18 U.S. Code § 3121, referred to as the
Pen Register and Trap and Trace statute, to help enable
certain “active defense” activities. Amending the PRTT
statute would allow cybersecurity companies, or companies with the necessary resources and expertise, to
conduct more effective identifying activities on behalf of
their companies or customers.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #3:

INTEGRATE PUBLIC- AND PRIVATE-SECTOR CYBER DEFENSE EFFORTS
The U.S. government should improve its capacity to better coordinate its own cyber defense planning
and operations and integrate its operations with the private sector. Current federal government operations
to defend against cyberattacks are decentralized and tend to be uncoordinated, leading to inefficiencies
and the lack of a coherent, strategic approach to defend the nation. Therefore, the interests of critical
infrastructure providers and parts of the private sector that are key to cyber defense are not always
adequately incorporated into these defensive operations because of a lack of institutionalized processes
and procedures for collaboration with federal agencies and a dearth of threat information.

Key Recommendation
5.3 Congress should direct the executive branch to strengthen a public-private, integrated cyber
center within CISA in support of the critical infrastructure security and resilience mission and to
conduct a one-year, comprehensive systems analysis review of federal cyber and cybersecurity
centers, including plans to develop and improve integration.
Over the past decade, the U.S. government has stood
up a number of missions, centers, and programs across
the federal government to strengthen U.S. cybersecurity.
As the number of agencies involved in the cybersecurity
mission has expanded, however, there have been difficulties in integrating their operations for coordinated action,
common situational awareness, and joint analysis, and
the risk of fragmented, uncoordinated efforts has grown.
U.S. public-private cybersecurity efforts will continue to
be undermined without effective, meaningful cooperation across federal departments and agencies. While the
recommendations in this report that call for investment
in programs that support and enable joint planning,
coordinated action, and shared information and analysis—all vital parts of operational collaboration—can
do much to address these issues, they are insufficient if
underlying structural procedural issues remain unaddressed. More importantly, these recommendations are
no substitute for human-to-human collaboration and
close, trusted relationships. For the United States, seamless collaboration means diminishing barriers between
agencies and between the public and private sectors with
a focus on relationships—underpinned and served by a

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

strong technical foundation like the Joint Collaborative
Environment (recommendation 5.2).
CISA is already a key component in coordinating the
cyber defense and security efforts of federal departments
and agencies and integrating these efforts with the
private sector. Initially conceptualized through a national
cybersecurity and communications integration center
(NCCIC), the vision for CISA’s cyber mission is to be the
U.S. government’s primary coordinating body charged
with forging whole-of-government, public-private
collaboration in cybersecurity. However, CISA has been
institutionally limited in its ability to fully carry out this
mission, hindered by inadequate facilities, insufficient
resources, lack of buy-in from other federal departments
and agencies, ambiguity from Congress on its role and
position in relation to other agencies, and inconsistent
support to and integration with the private sector. To
truly operationalize cybersecurity collaboration with the
private sector, the U.S. government must strengthen an
integrated cyber center within CISA, improve its connectivity with other key cyber and cybersecurity centers—
including the FBI’s National Cyber Investigative Joint

105

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Task Force (NCIJTF), ODNI’s Cyber Threat Intelligence
Integration Center (CTIIC), DOD’s Integrated Cyber
Center and Joint Operations Center (ICC/JOC), and
NSA’s Cybersecurity Directorate (CSD)—and ensure that
the systems, processes, and human element of collaboration and integration are fully brought to bear in support
of the critical infrastructure cybersecurity and resilience
mission.
Congress should direct the executive branch to immediately begin to strengthen a public-private, integrated
cyber center within CISA in support of the critical
infrastructure cybersecurity and resilience mission and in
coordination with centers in the FBI, ODNI, and DoD.
While this is under way, the executive branch should
conduct a one-year, comprehensive systems analysis
review of federal cyber and cybersecurity centers, which
should include developing plans to better integrate
the centers. The review should identify challenges and
solutions to more effectively integrate elements of federal
cyber centers, the private sector, and CISA with a view
toward reinforcing human-to-human collaboration,
reducing procedural or technical barriers to integration,
implementing other recommendations within this report,
and, to the greatest extent possible, increasing meaningful
integration of cybersecurity stakeholders. This process
should be undertaken by the National Cyber Director
(recommendation 1.5), or, in lieu of a National Cyber
Director, a working group led by DHS, in coordination
with DoD, DOJ, FBI, and ODNI. In particular, this
review should address the following actions.
Strengthening CISA’s Public-Private Integrated Cyber
Center: CISA’s role as the primary interface between the
federal government and critical infrastructure for cybersecurity places it in a unique position to operationalize the
type of public-private collaboration necessary to secure
and defend cyberspace and the critical infrastructure that
relies on it. In strengthening a public-private integrated
cyber center within CISA, the executive branch should
identify continuing gaps and shortcomings in CISA’s
current capacity, structure, funding, and integration

106

of its work with sector-specific agencies that prevent it
from fulfilling its role as the central coordinator among
federal centers for critical infrastructure cybersecurity and
resilience.
Identifying Areas of Integration and Collocation: The
executive branch should assess areas where existing federal
cyber centers, or portions of a center’s mission, would
benefit from greater integration or collocation to support
cybersecurity collaboration with critical infrastructure.
The review should identify and acknowledge continuing
gaps and shortcomings in associated capacity and funding
of the FBI and ODNI, identify methods to better
integrate efforts with CISA in support of its mission to
ensure the security and resilience of critical infrastructure,
and identify where federal agencies have distinct statutory
authorities (i.e., those of law enforcement, counterintelligence, military, and intelligence operations) best kept
distinct and separate from these efforts.
Supporting the National Security Agency’s Cybersecurity
Directorate (CSD): The executive branch review of federal
cyber centers should include a particular focus on NSA’s
new Cybersecurity Directorate. Sustaining and strengthening the CSD’s collaboration with and support to other
federal departments and agencies, particularly CISA, is
critical in ensuring that the U.S. government’s technical
expertise and intelligence resources are fully brought to
bear in supporting both federal and public-private cybersecurity efforts. The executive branch should identify
continuing gaps and opportunities for greater integration
of CSD with CISA, other federal cyber centers, and, as
needed, the private sector in its role of securing national
security systems.
Assessing Centralized, Collocated Public-Private
Collaboration: The U.S. government should identify lessons from the United Kingdom’s National Cybersecurity
Center model, which maintains collocated classified and
unclassified environments for private-sector cybersecurity integration. The review should assess whether an
integrated cyber center within CISA should be similarly

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

organized into two environments: an unclassified side,
which handles general cybersecurity coordination and
cooperation with the private sector, and a classified
side with appropriate support from CSD, which handles deeper collaboration with systemically important
critical infrastructure and the intelligence community
on systemic cyber security and resilience and cyber
defense operations. The executive branch should assess
continuing gaps and limitations in its ability to provide
for greater centralization of public-private cybersecurity
efforts similar to the NCSC model within a CISA integrated cyber center.
Increasing Public- and Private-Sector Integration: The executive branch review should also recommend procedures
and criteria for increasing and expanding the participation and integration of public- and private-sector personnel into U.S. government cyber defense and security
efforts. This review should identify continuing limitations
or hurdles in the security clearance program for private

sector partners and in integrating private sector partners
into a CISA integrated cyber center, including integrating
private sector organizations like information sharing
and analysis centers (ISAC) and the Financial Systemic
Analysis and Resilience Center (FSARC).
Within one year and upon the conclusion of its review,
the executive branch should report its findings to
Congress and provide recommendations on additional
resources or authorities required to implement its plans
and to address gaps the review has identified. The executive branch will conduct an annual review thereafter,
providing a yearly report to Congress on the status of
its efforts, any revised findings or additional resources
or authorities required, and its progress in addressing
the areas identified in this recommendation. Future
reports should include updates on the progress of the
Joint Collaborative Environment (recommendation 5.2)
in enabling greater federal agency and public-private
integration, after the environment comes online.

Key Recommendation
5.4 The executive branch should establish a Joint Cyber Planning Cell under the Cybersecurity
and Infrastructure Security Agency to coordinate cybersecurity planning and readiness across the
federal government and between the public and private sectors for significant cyber incidents
and malicious cyber campaigns.
Successfully defending against malicious cyber incidents,
mitigating their consequences, and countering adversary
cyber campaigns requires the United States to be able
to mount its own coordinated, timely, whole-of-government, public-private cyber defense and security
campaigns. Planning is a critical element in fulfilling
this mandate. Effective cyber planning ensures that the
government both aligns and readies the full range of
U.S. government tools in cyberspace and coordinates
jointly with private-sector entities, so that they can be
employed and integrated seamlessly in response to or in
advance of a crisis. Elements of the U.S. government and
the private sector, working within their respective sectors

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

or as individual firms or agencies, often lack the power
to independently counter and mitigate a coordinated
nation-state cyber campaign. Given this reality, planning
is fundamental to enabling and strengthening feedback
loops for identifying an effective division of effort and
preparing individual agencies and firms to execute
responses quickly and with a common understanding of
roles, responsibilities, and courses of action.
But efforts to date have not adequately included private-sector stakeholders, and they have been reactive to
individual incidents rather than being comprehensive
and forward-looking. This inadequate response is largely

107

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

due to insufficient coordination of the U.S. government’s
cyber capabilities, authorities, and expertise—which
remain distributed across a variety of agencies—and
questions on how to appropriately integrate private-sector
participation. Furthermore, these agencies have not
engaged in the collaborative planning necessary to
overcome jurisdictional hurdles, identify gaps, align
whole-of-government capabilities, build private-sector
buy-in, or institutionalize learning through combined
exercises. As a result, when an adversary cyber campaign
is identified or an incident does occur, coordinated and
comprehensive operations in defense of critical infrastructure are unlikely to be timely or effective.
To address this shortcoming, the executive branch, with
the support of Congress, should establish a Joint Cyber
Planning Cell (“the Cell”) under CISA. The Cell should
be composed of a central planning staff and representatives
from the federal agencies that wield operational cyber
capabilities and/or authorities in defense of critical infrastructure. The Cell will facilitate comprehensive planning
of defensive, non-intelligence cybersecurity campaigns
across agencies. It will integrate these planning efforts with
the private sector, particularly with systemically important
critical infrastructure (recommendation 5.1) and in areas
where the ability of the private sector to deploy security
mitigating a threat rivals or exceeds that of the U.S.
government (recommendation 5.4.2). The Cell will be
managed and hosted by CISA and informed by the Joint
Collaborative Environment (recommendation 5.2). The
plans should not include consequence imposition options,
but should instead focus on limiting and mitigating malicious cyber campaigns once they have been identified.
Centralized Planning Resources and Support: As part of the
Cell’s establishment, Congress should ensure that it has sufficient resources both to carry out its mission and to provide
support to other agencies that possess relevant equities but
do not have adequate operational planning capacity.
Cyber Campaign Planning: The Cell will be charged with
coordinating planning for campaigns and operations to

108

respond to and recover from a significant cyber incident
or limit, mitigate, or defend against a coordinated,
malicious cyber campaign targeting U.S. critical infrastructure. These plans should be developed through a
deliberate planning process, accounting for all participating federal agency cyber capabilities and authorities.
The planning will integrate representatives from the
NCIJTF Office of Campaign Coordination and from the
private sector to identify comparative advantages, develop
unity of purpose, and understand needs or limitations of
government or private-sector action in protecting critical
infrastructure.
Planning Procedures: The executive branch should establish procedures for identifying and prioritizing scenarios
and contingencies around which the Cell will develop
whole-of-government and public-private plans. The
executive branch should assign roles and responsibilities to
federal agencies necessary to carry out this requirement and
establish further directives on how plans will be formed,
coordinated, maintained, updated, and routinely exercised.
Execution of Plans: When an adversary campaign is
identified or a significant cyber incident occurs, the Cell’s
deliberate plans would help inform courses of action to
be approved through a National Security Council (NSC)
decision-making process. As appropriate, the Cell would
coordinate the execution of these plans with existing cyber
centers, which oversee contributing operations by responsible agencies. Agency elements of plans should be prepared
and submitted through a predetermined approval process
to appropriate authorities for rapid—and, if required,
sustained—execution in response to an attack.
Integration with Consequence Imposition Options: The
Cell’s planning efforts would integrate with, and be one
element of, broader NSC-led options levied against an
adversary in response to a malicious cyber campaign.
These would include public attribution, criminal charges
(such as indictments), sanctions, and other executive
actions designed to impose consequences and deter future
malicious behavior.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

Enabling Recommendations
5.4.1 Institutionalize Department of Defense
Participation in Public-Private Cybersecurity
Initiatives
Building better public-private collaboration will require
more active and deeper collaboration between DoD
and other federal departments and agencies and private-sector stakeholders, including owners and operators
of systemically important critical infrastructure. DoD
brings considerable resources, expertise, and advanced
capabilities that, when integrated appropriately with new
or existing public-private initiatives, can substantially
increase the timeliness and effectiveness of U.S. cyber
defense and security efforts. An example is the Pathfinder
initiative,295 which grew out of a 2017 pilot program,
Project Indigo, between the U.S. government and the
financial sector. These projects enabled the increased
sharing of threat data and greater joint collaboration
between firms and government stakeholders. A second
Pathfinder initiative has since been created for the energy
sector.296 The Pathfinder initiative is a key proof of
concept of collaboration between the private sector and
critical infrastructure in support of the U.S. cyber defense
and security mission. Developing institutional support
for Pathfinder-type initiatives not only creates opportunities for increased collaboration across critical sectors, as
prioritized by federal departments and agencies, but will
also buttress and accelerate nascent efforts and increase
their chances of success. These initiatives will also enable
these programs to move beyond threat information
sharing toward better human-to-human collaboration
in developing sector-specific concepts of operations and
joint exercises.
Congress should request in the FY2021 National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA) an assessment of the impact
of the current Pathfinder initiative, prospects for making
existing Pathfinder pilots more robust, and whether
and how to expand Pathfinder or similar models of
public-private collaboration to other critical infrastructure sectors, particularly systemically important critical
infrastructure. The review should also:

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

• Examine additional comparative models for ensuring dedicated, long-term support to public-private
cybersecurity initiatives led by civilian departments
and agencies, such as the FBI and CISA.
• Examine DoD support to existing federal cyber centers and assess the need for establishing a meaningfully permanent presence of personnel to encourage
greater integration with public- and private-sector
cybersecurity efforts.

5.4.2 Expand Cyber Defense Collaboration
with Information and Communications
Technology (ICT) Enablers
Telecommunications and information technology sectors
are likely to hold systemically important critical infrastructure assets, because the disruption of their assets could
cause cascading or catastrophic effects. As providers, owners, and operators of core services and of infrastructure key
to the functioning of the cyber ecosystem, internet service
providers, cloud service providers, information technology
software and hardware producers, and cybersecurity companies are uniquely placed to have an outsized impact on
national cybersecurity efforts. Currently, U.S. government
efforts to provide more and more actionable information
to enable ICT enabler security operations have been limited in scope and duration. Likewise, the U.S. government
is limited in its capacity to receive information from these
enablers. To leverage the reach of these companies, the
U.S. government should invest more resources in:
• Providing better support to ICT enablers, including
better and more actionable information and classified
indicators, and increasing collaboration on broader
cyber defense efforts.
• Building institutional mechanisms to better identify,
accept, and integrate key cybersecurity information
and indicators with information and indicators from
other government sources.
• Operationalizing public-private initiatives, like the
Enduring Security Framework, between the U.S.
government and critical technology enablers such as
internet service providers and information technology companies.

109

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY
INSTRUMENT OF POWER

T

o best implement layered cyber deterrence, the
United States must be prepared to impose costs
to deter and, if necessary, fight and win in conflict, as
well as counter and reduce malicious adversary behavior
below the level of armed conflict. Therefore, this pillar
comprises implementing defend forward in day-to-day
competition to counter adversary cyber campaigns and
impose costs, as well as being prepared to prevail in
crisis and conflict. Importantly, the military instrument
of cyber power is intended to complement, rather than
supplant, other instruments. The result is the coordinated
employment of all instruments of national power.
Thus far, the United States has successfully deterred
strategic cyberattacks that would rise to the level of an
armed attack. However, below that threshold, there is
a significant set of adversary behavior that the United
States has not prevented. That is why, critical to this pillar
is the defend forward concept, originally articulated in
the 2018 Department of Defense Cyber Strategy.297 This
approach addresses the set of malicious adversary action
that exists on a spectrum between routine activities
that states tacitly accept (e.g., espionage) and strategic
cyberattacks that would constitute an armed attack. The
Commission reimagines and expands the core logic of
DoD’s concept of defend forward to incorporate both
military and non-military instruments of power.
Defend forward follows from the recognition that
organizing U.S. cyber forces around simply reacting
to adversary activity has been ineffective in preventing
adversary cyber campaigns; and initiatives that rely
solely on non-military instruments of power have been
insufficient to alter adversaries’ cost-benefit and risk
calculus. Therefore, the United States must ensure that
it is organized, resourced, and postured to position and
employ forces forward—geographically and virtually—to

110

counter adversary campaigns, pursue adversaries as they
maneuver, and impose costs.
An urgent concern is the ability to defend and surge
when adversaries utilize cyber capabilities to attack U.S.
military systems and functions. To accomplish objectives
in support of defend forward, credible deterrence, and
the ability to win if deterrence fails, the U.S. government
must maintain ready and resilient military capabilities.
These include cyber tools to be employed as an independent military capability and as enablers of conventional
operations and campaigns. The same technologically
advanced military capabilities that form the bedrock of
the United States’ military advantage also create cyber
vulnerabilities that adversaries can and will use to their
strategic advantage. In this way, vulnerabilities that adversaries are able to exploit in routine competition below the
level of war have potentially dangerous implications for
the United States’ ability to deter and prevail in conflict
above that threshold.
Adversary cyber threats to the U.S. military and the
defense industrial base (DIB) continue to cause the loss
of national security information and intellectual property.
They also generate the risk that, through cyber means,
U.S. military systems could be rendered ineffective or
their intended uses distorted. Actions such as improving
detection and mitigation of adversary cyber threats to the
DIB are critical to providing for the proper functioning
and resilience of key military systems and functions.
These strategic realities create an imperative for the
United States to preserve and employ the military instrument of power in and through cyberspace, including the
intersection of cyberspace with conventional and nuclear
military capabilities, while deliberately managing potential escalation risks. This pillar focuses on two key aspects
of this mission: implementing the military component

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

Desired End States
Desired End States

Preserve and Employ the
Military Instrument of Power

Immediate Strategic
Objectives

Layered Cyber
Deterrence End States

Conduct a force structure
assessment of the Cyber
Mission Force

Grow CMF capacity to meet
the scope of the threat and
growing mission requirements

Reduce the magnitude and
effects of malicious adversary
behavior below the use-offorce threshold

Conduct cyber vulnerability
assessments of all major
DoD weapons systems,
including NC3 and NLCC

Ensure the security and
resilience of critical
conventional and nuclear
weapons systems and functions

Reduce the probability of
cyber attacks of significant
consequences above the
use-of-force threshold

of defend forward, and securing the resilience of key
weapons systems and functions.
Focusing on the military instrument of power, this pillar
lays out how to implement the military elements of
defend forward, which represents a key—though not the
only—element of its whole-of-government implementation. This implementation draws on the central tenets of
the Department of Defense’s defend forward concept as
set forth in the 2018 DoD Cyber Strategy, as well as U.S.
Cyber Command’s implementation of it through persistent engagement. In February 2019 testimony before
the Senate Armed Services Committee, General Paul
Nakasone described how U.S. Cyber Command conducts
“persistent engagement, which includes partnering with
other US Government elements to build resilience into
US networks and systems, defending against malicious
cyberspace activities as far forward as possible, and
contesting adversary attempts to disrupt our nation’s
key government and military functions.”298 This entails
“acting”—conducting cyber operations to gain access,
pursue adversaries where they operate and, when warranted, deliver effects against adversary infrastructure and

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

capabilities—and “enabling”—providing early warning to
partners, sharing threat information and, when requested,
surging to provide support in the form of personnel and
capabilities for contingencies or crises.299
Operationalizing defend forward and persistent engagement within the military pillar of the Commission’s
strategic approach requires three key actions.
First, the United States must plan, resource, and conduct
cyber operations and standing campaigns to counter
adversaries. This includes countering adversaries’ offensive cyber capabilities and infrastructure, organizations
that support their cyber operations and campaigns, and
the locus of their decision making. Such actions impose
direct and indirect costs on adversaries. Direct costs
include those that impact adversaries’ ability to conduct
cyber operations and campaigns. Indirect costs involve
forcing adversaries to shift to secondary and tertiary
lines of effort and divert resources from other areas.
These actions are designed to affect an adversary’s overall
perception of the costs, risks, and benefits of targeting the
United States.

111

(U.S. Cyber Command Public Affairs)

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

keeping pace with them
and anticipating their
behavior, rather than
simply reacting and
responding to it, is gaining and maintaining
access against defined
targets and pursuing
adversaries as they
maneuver.
When these three
elements are combined,
the military component
of defend forward can
be integrated as part
of a whole-of-government effort with other
U.S. service members and civilians along with partner nation service members work to improve
tactical-level cyber operations skills against a live opposing force at the Joint Training Facility
instruments of national
in Suffolk, VA, during U.S. Cyber Command’s annual exercise.
power. These include
diplomacy, information,
the military, economic and financial tools, intelligence,
Second, the United States must have capabilities and
and law enforcement.
processes within the cyber force to rapidly respond to
emerging geopolitical situations, and ensure that these
The recommendations supporting this pillar focus on
cyber capabilities can be easily integrated with other
ensuring that the United States protects its ability to
military and non-military tools. Specifically, DoD
employ the military instrument of power, alongside other
should develop the capacity to provide decision makers
instruments, across the spectrum of engagement from
with cyber options, including options to support crisis
competition to crisis and conflict. Two recommendations
bargaining and response that are independent of and do
are key: (1) growing the Cyber Mission Force (CMF)
not rely on existing cyber campaign plans and the forces
capacity commensurate with the scale of the threat and
already committed to them. For U.S. warfighting, in
the scope of mission requirements, and (2) promoting the
particular, cyber options enable the Joint Force to gain
cybersecurity and resilience of critical military systems
an information advantage, exercise global command and
300
and functions. Achieving the former requires assessing
control, and execute strikes at long range.
the force size and mixture of the CMF, and succeeding
at the latter demands recurring reporting on the cyber
Third, the United States must operate in cyberspace
vulnerabilities of all major weapons systems and a
to provide early warning; gain situational awareness of
cybersecurity and vulnerability assessment of all segments
evolving adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures
of the nuclear command, control, and communications
(TTPs), capabilities, and personas; and conduct oper(NC3) enterprise and of National Leadership Command
ational preparation of the environment (OPE). The
Capabilities (NLCC).
cyber domain is dynamic, opportunities are fleeting, and
our adversaries are agile and adaptive. A prerequisite to

112

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #1:

GROW THE CAPACITY OF THE CYBER MISSION FORCE (CMF) TO MEET
THE SCOPE OF THE THREAT AND GROWING MISSION REQUIREMENTS
The United States should achieve appropriate resourcing, force size, and mix of its cyber forces as well as
streamlined decision-making processes to ensure rapid maneuver and flexibility. The CMF, under U.S.
Cyber Command, is the locus of the Department of Defense’s efforts to counter, disrupt, and impose
costs against malicious adversary behavior in cyberspace. Planning and executing cyber operations and
campaigns demand a significant investment in time, skill, resources, and human capital. These operations
and campaigns also necessitate flexibility in decision making and delegated authority to enable rapid
response and maneuver, intelligence capabilities that enable gaining and maintaining access, and a
decision-making and operational environment that supports long-term campaigning.

Key Recommendation
6.1 Congress should direct the Department of Defense to conduct a force structure assessment
of the Cyber Mission Force (CMF).
As part of the FY2021 National Defense Authorization
Act (NDAA), Congress should direct the Department of
Defense to conduct a force structure assessment of the
U.S. Cyber Command’s Cyber Mission Force in light of
growing mission requirements and expectations, in terms
of both scope and scale. This assessment should include
resource and capability implications for the National
Security Agency (NSA) in its combat support agency role.
The CMF is currently considered at full operational
capability, with 133 teams comprising a total of approximately 6,200 individuals. However, these requirements
were defined in 2013, well before the United States
experienced or observed some of the key events that
have shaped the U.S. government’s understanding of
the urgency and salience of the cyber threat posed by
adversaries, as well as before the development of DoD’s
defend forward strategy. Today, the teams that make up
the CMF are responsible for a range of distinct DoD
cyber missions, including defending the DoD information network (DoDIN), providing support to military
operations through the geographic combatant commands, and defending the nation to counter malicious

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

adversary behavior in day-to-day competition. This represents an expansion of the scope of the CMF’s mission
set (operating off DoDIN) and the scale of its operations
(increasing operations in response to a more dangerous
threat environment), even though its force structure goal
has remained constant.
The FY2020 NDAA made important progress toward
the needed assessment, though work remains to be done.
Notably, Section 1652 requires a zero-based review of
DoD cyber and information technology personnel,
while Sections 1655 and 1656 require studies on future
DoD cyber warfighting capabilities given existing cyber
architecture and acquisition programs, as well as a study
on the structure of the Joint Force Cyber Organizations.
However, Congress must also ensure that the CMF, in
particular, conducts a force structure assessment and
troop-to-task analysis that takes into account the increasing scope and scale of CMF missions compared to previous fiscal years and projected into the future. In addition,
in its capacity as a combat support agency, the National
Security Agency provides critical intelligence support to
Title 10 cyberspace operations, particularly at the tactical

113

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

and operational level. Therefore, an assessment must
also be conducted that includes resource requirements in
support of this aspect of its mission.

(U.S. Air Force Graphic by Tech. Sgt. R. J. Biermann)

To conduct these missions at scale, as well as ensure that
the CMF has sufficient capacity to maintain steady-state
operations while surging to respond to an emerging
crisis, Congress should request in the next Cyber Posture
Review, and quadrennially thereafter, that DoD provide
an assessment of the requirements to grow the CMF,
including projected force size and mixture necessary to
sustain all DoD missions in cyberspace as determined by
the department. Key concerns that should be addressed
include ensuring that the CMF is appropriately sized,
given the requirements of the diverse and significant
mission sets it supports, and ensuring that the allocation
of teams within the CMF is matched to the prioritization
of strategic objectives. The results of this assessment
should drive resource allocation, force size and mix, and
continued congressional oversight of these efforts. The
realities of the current and anticipated future threat and
operational environments demand that the CMF and
NSA be given resources commensurate with the nature of
the challenge faced by the United States.

Enabling Recommendations
6.1.1 Direct the Department of Defense
to Create a Major Force Program (MFP)
Funding Category for U.S. Cyber Command
To enhance the flexibility and agility of U.S. Cyber
Command in a dynamic operating environment,
Congress should direct in the FY2021 NDAA that the
Department of Defense submit a budget justification
display that includes a Major Force Program (MFP) category for the training, manning, and equipping of U.S.
Cyber Command. According to 10 U.S. Code § 238,
DoD is required to submit to Congress a budget justification display that includes an MFP category for the Cyber
Mission Force. However, this law was enacted in 2014,
before U.S. Cyber Command was elevated to a unified
combatant command. Therefore, there is a need for a
new budget justification display that establishes an MFP
category for U.S. Cyber Command. A new MFP funding
category for U.S. Cyber Command would provide it with
acquisition authorities over goods and services unique to
the command’s needs. It should also provide a process
to expeditiously resolve Combatant Command/Service
funding disputes, consistent with the intent of DoD
Directive 5100.03.301 This would be analogous to the
MFP funding category for U.S. Special
Operations Command,
which was created to
support comparable
needs for operational
adaptability.

The Cyber Mission Force (CMF) reached full operational capability in 2013 with 133 teams
comprising a total of approximately 6,200 individuals.

114

6.1.2 Expand
Current Malware
Inoculation
Initiatives
As part of defend
forward and persistent engagement,
as well as in support
of broader DoD
missions, DoD/U.S.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

Cyber Command conducts threat hunting to discover,
among other things, adversary malware. Working with
the Department of the Treasury, the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), NSA, and the private sector, U.S.
Cyber Command has participated in recent efforts
to expose adversary malware by making it public in
information-sharing venues such as VirusTotal.302 To
contribute to the readiness of U.S. defense and critical
infrastructure, efforts should be made to accelerate
sharing of the most recent malicious code captured in
the wild through appropriate interagency channels,
including through the Joint Collaborative Environment
(recommendation 5.2). Doing so allows the private
sector an opportunity to develop response plans and
potentially inoculate their systems to avoid harm. While
the private sector has created a number of malware
reporting venues available to the public, federal entities
have begun to participate only in the past few years.

of threat information across agencies, the private sector
will be forced to de-duplicate, rationalize, and reconcile
the disparate outputs of the various federal stakeholders.
There should also be a bias toward action to get perishable data out to victims in the private sector as quickly
as reasonably possible, rather than waiting to complete a
slow process of coordination prior to release.

U.S. Cyber Command has unique capabilities and
authorities for threat hunting, making its input to these
databases critical for national security. In addition, NSA
plays an essential role in malware analysis in support of
this initiative. These malware inoculation efforts have
made important contributions to reducing vulnerabilities. However, the timing and sequencing of their public
release have often been met with frustration from the
private sector, given the lack of coordination between
the two entities. These efforts should continue and be
accelerated, and U.S. Cyber Command should ensure
coordination with DHS, the FBI, and stakeholders in the
private sector in the release of information, particularly
with owners and operators of systemically important
critical infrastructure (SICI; recommendation 5.1).
Improvements in the timing, granularity, and actionability of information should be synchronized with
existing efforts across interagency partners and with
the new enhanced coordination mechanisms proposed
elsewhere in this report so that the private sector can
be confident that it has a shared picture of the threat
landscape. Without a coherent framework for the release

The pace of cyberspace operations may require delegated
authorities and seamless decision making to pursue and
deliver effects against adversary targets. A number of
cyber-related authorities currently exist within DoD, but
not all are delegated to a single organization. Relevant
authorities within the scope of Title 10 for conducting
counter-cyber operations include not only authorities
to deliver offensive cyber effects but also those that
support planning and executing these operations. These
encompass information operations (IO), which include
authorities to create, procure, and deploy personas;
military information support operations (MISO);
military deception (MILDEC); and counterintelligence.
Currently, cyber-related authorities are diffused across
different elements of DoD (functional combatant
commands, geographic combatant commands, and the
various services).

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

6.1.3 Review the Delegation of Authorities
for Cyber Operations
To enable support for more streamlined decision-making
processes, and flexible and rapid maneuver, Congress
should request that DoD provide in the next Cyber
Posture Review an analysis of and recommendations
for the conditions under which further delegation of
cyber-related authorities is appropriate to U.S. Cyber
Command, as well as to other DoD components including NSA, the Defense Information Systems Agency
(DISA), and the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3).

DoD should also review the option of further delegating
information warfare authorities to U.S. Cyber Command
and the specific conditions under which such delegation
would be appropriate. The purpose of this assessment

115

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

is to prevent both unnecessary friction that might delay
rapid and cohesive action to implement defend forward
and inappropriate constraints on U.S. Cyber Command’s
ability to quickly respond to and thwart adversary behavior in day-to-day competition. U.S. Cyber Command
operations would still be subject to rigorous oversight and
approval processes.
Relevant authorities to review for delegation to NSA
should include those authorities that enable the agency
to rapidly tip relevant foreign intelligence collection to
private entities that constitute the Defense Industrial Base
and their service providers to support the latter’s own
defensive operations.

6.1.4 Reassess and Amend Standing Rules of
Engagement (SROE) and Standing Rules for
Use of Force (SRUF) for U.S. Forces
DoD, as part of the next Cyber Posture Review, should
produce a study that assesses and provides recommendations for amendments as necessary to the Standing Rules
of Engagement (SROE) and Standing Rules for Use of
Force (SRUF) for U.S. forces, as these rules are more
than a decade old. This study should be context-specific,
taking into account the forces’ assigned mission sets.
Given the unique aspects of operating in cyberspace, particularly below a use-of-force threshold, it is imperative
that SROE/SRUF guidance be relevant to actions in and
through cyberspace.
Specific issues that could be addressed as part of this
study include the fact that there are no “high seas”
in cyberspace; the need to conform to current DoD
structure and organization (e.g., the Unified Campaign
Plan); the reassignment of authorities delegated to U.S.
Strategic Command to U.S. Cyber Command in the case
of cyberspace activities; the applicability of the default
and restrictive nature of SROE/SRUF as applied to
actions in cyberspace above and below the threshold of
armed conflict; the delineation of authority between geographic combatant commands and functional combatant
commands with respect to supplemental rules for actions

116

in and through cyberspace; and the definitions within the
context of cyberspace of such terms as territory, authority
to pursue, and hostile intent.

6.1.5 Cooperate with Allies and Partners to
Defend Forward
Allies and partners are essential to the effective implementation of layered cyber deterrence and the concept
of defend forward. At the strategic level, they are a key
source of U.S. comparative advantage. At the operational and tactical levels, implementing defend forward
requires operating in allied and partner cyberspace (part
of “gray” space).303 The United States will, whenever
possible, get support from allies and partners for this
effort. While DoD is already collaborating closely
with allies and partners, this effort should include
other interagency stakeholders. Therefore, DoD, the
Department of State, and other relevant interagency
partners should continue and expand efforts with allies
and partners to gain permission (when practical) to
implement defend forward—particularly in undertaking
hunt forward activities, in which U.S. cyber forces are
able to conduct threat hunting and pursue adversaries
on allied and partner networks, but also in conducting
deceptive countermeasures, enabling early warning, and
providing resources to support hardening defenses.
The Department of State should focus on the traditional
diplomatic channels in support of defend forward,
while DoD should lead through military-to-military
relationships. In addition, given the preexisting and deep
intelligence-sharing partnership among Five Eyes allies
(Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom,
and the United States), DoD (including the NSA) and
the intelligence community should further collaborate
with these Five Eyes allies, supplementing the signals
intelligence architecture and mission with one supporting
military cyber operations. Doing so would increase the
scale of the infrastructure that could support defend forward, as well as enable the United States to leverage any
unique capabilities of its allies to conduct certain types of
operations and missions.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

6.1.6 Require the Department of Defense to
Define Reporting Metrics
In light of DoD’s expanding mission set, it is imperative to assess the extent to which cyber campaigns
and operations conducted in support of the defend
forward strategy are achieving their intended effects.
The FY2020 NDAA made important progress in this
effort, with Section 1634 requiring DoD to report
on quantitative and qualitative metrics. However, key
recommendations on metrics remain, the most critical
of which includes ensuring that DoD is measuring
defend forward outcomes across strategic, operational,
and tactical levels—not just the number of operations
conducted or their immediate tactical effects. Therefore,
DoD should ensure that when modifying its reporting system pursuant to Section 1634 of the FY2020
NDAA, the department defines and reports to Congress
department-specific metrics to measure defend forward
outcomes across strategic, operational, and tactical levels
and includes this data in the existing quarterly briefings to appropriate congressional committees. These
measures should include the direct and indirect costs
imposed on adversaries, the impact of defend forward
operations and campaigns on adversary behavior, how
adversary cyber operations have quantifiably affected
DoD’s ability to conduct or succeed across cyber and
non-cyber missions, and DoD’s assessment of the
ability of adversary cyber operations to impact future
campaigns.
6.1.7 Assess the Establishment of a Military
Cyber Reserve
Congress should request in the FY2021 NDAA an assessment from DoD on the need for, and requirements of, a
military cyber reserve, its possible composition, and its
structure (i.e., a retainer model, a nontraditional reserve,
a strategic technological reserve, or other models). The
purpose of this military cyber reserve would be to play
a central role in mobilizing a surge capacity, utilizing
preexisting links between the private sector (particularly
SICI) and DoD.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

A DoD military cyber reserve assessment should contain
a number of key elements, including the following:
• Explore how different types of reserve models,
including less traditional models with more flexible
requirements, could address broader issues of talent
management (e.g., retaining talent transitioning
from active duty into the reserve).
• Assess how a cyber reserve could deliberately recruit
key people in the private sector to participate,
enabling DoD to call on cyber talent that currently
resides in the private sector as a surge capacity in
times of crisis.
• Examine ways to facilitate recruiting and retaining
civilian talent with no prior military expertise who
are interested in serving.
• Assess the impact a cyber reserve would have on
drawing civilian talent from the private sector and
any similar non-DoD governmental capacity.
• Address how DoD might use existing mechanisms to
bring in technical expertise when needed to respond
to a crisis and identify shortcomings in cyber expertise that might be addressed through more targeted
hiring practices.

6.1.8 Establish Title 10 Professors in Cyber
Security and Information Operations
The Department of Defense should establish a Title
10 Professor in Cyber Security and Information
Operations, housed at the Senior Education Professional
Military Education (PME) institutions within each
service branch and at the National Defense University
(NDU), to communicate and investigate cyber strategy
and policy at the national level as it affects the armed
forces. A foundational strength of the U.S. armed forces
is their education in operations as a professional military
force. In response to the evolution of the cyber mission
in contingency planning, PME institutions must evolve
to meet the challenge of operating in the information
environment. Cyber security and information operations are increasingly vital to military planning and
guidance: therefore, this senior faculty position is key
to adapting service PME to the changing landscape.

117

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

These professors would be responsible for establishing
and implementing the curriculum for both cyber and
information warfare national strategy at the Command,
Staff, and Planners Colleges of each service branch.
They would also play a crucial role in institutionalizing

and coordinating cyber and information warfare
education across each service branch, including through
distance education. These positions should not replace
existing programs of cyber education within the PME
or NDU systems.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE #2:

ENSURE THE SECURITY AND RESILIENCE OF CRITICAL CONVENTIONAL
AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS SYSTEMS AND FUNCTIONS
As adversaries’ cyber threats become more sophisticated, the United States should be able to address the
challenges in protecting its essential military systems and functions. While continued automation and
connectivity are essential to DoD’s military capabilities, they also present numerous access points for
adversaries’ cyber intrusions and attacks. The scope and the challenge of securing critical military networks
and systems are immense. It goes beyond protecting the cybersecurity of the DoDIN to include defending
the Defense Industrial Base (DIB) against adversary efforts to steal national security intellectual property
and securing critical conventional and nuclear weapons systems and functions.

Key Recommendation
6.2 Congress should direct the Department of Defense to conduct a cybersecurity vulnerability
assessment of all segments of the NC3 and NLCC systems and continually assess weapon systems
cyber vulnerabilities.
Congress should include language in the FY2021
NDAA that requires the DoD to conduct a cybersecurity
vulnerability assessment of all segments of the nuclear
command, control, and communications enterprise and
National Leadership Command Capabilities. Following
this assessment, DoD should begin to report annually to
Congress on the status of the ongoing cyber vulnerability
assessments of all DoD major weapon systems and NC3
and NLCC enterprises. This report must include assessments of legacy platforms and cyber vulnerabilities across
networked systems in broader mission areas.
DoD has recently taken critical steps to improve weapons
systems cybersecurity. Moreover, as directed by Congress

118

in the FY2016 NDAA, the department has begun to
assess the cyber vulnerabilities of each major weapon system. While this effort represents important steps, barriers
to effective cybersecurity still remain, such as the lack of a
permanent process to periodically assess the cybersecurity
of fielded systems. Further, even as current efforts focus
on the vulnerabilities of individual weapons platforms,
it is crucial to also evaluate how a cyber intrusion or
attack on one system could affect the entire mission.
The process of identifying interdependent vulnerabilities
should go beyond assessing technical vulnerabilities to
also taking a risk management approach that seeks to
improve the overall resilience of the system as well as
to identify secondary and tertiary dependencies, with a

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

focus on rapid remediation of identified vulnerabilities.
With DoD systems more connected than ever before,
cybersecurity measures must take a more integrated
approach and take into account the impacts of cyber
vulnerabilities across systems. Routine testing should be
conducted to stress-test mission critical systems and processes in light of an evolving threat environment, and the
results should be communicated to Congress. In addition
to assessing vulnerabilities of fielded systems, DoD must
enforce cybersecurity requirements for systems that are in
development early in the acquisition lifecycle, ensuring
that they remain baked into the front end of this process
and are not “bolted on” later.304
The 2018 Government Accountability Office report on
DoD’s efforts thus far concluded that to “improve the
state of weapon systems cybersecurity, it is essential that
DOD sustain its momentum in developing and implementing key initiatives.”305 Thus, Congress should direct
DoD to institutionalize a continuous assessment process
and annually report these vulnerabilities to sustain its
momentum in implementing key initiatives.
Even more concerning is the potential cyber threat to the
U.S. nuclear deterrent and the survivability and resilience
of NC3 systems and NLCC programs facing the full
spectrum of cyber threats. These threats are particularly
alarming because they can undermine the stability of
nuclear deterrence and create the conditions for inadvertent nuclear war. The greatest risk is that precisely because
cyber interactions take place below the threshold of
armed conflict, the combination of cyber risks and NC3
systems can, in effect, lower that threshold. With this in
mind, Congress should direct DoD to routinely assess
every segment of the NC3 and NLCC enterprise for
adherence to cybersecurity best practices, vulnerabilities,
and evidence of compromise. Further, this analysis should
not be limited to technical penetrations and vulnerabilities. Attention should also be given to influence operations that aim to distort decision making while leaving
NC3 proper intact.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Enabling Recommendations
6.2.1 Require Defense Industrial Base
Participation in a Threat Intelligence Sharing
Program
A shared picture of the threat environment within the
DIB is essential to proactively and comprehensively
address cyber threats and vulnerabilities to this key
sector.306 Information sharing programs exist, but are
insufficient. For example, the DoD Cyber Crime Center
and the DIB Cybersecurity Program are largely voluntary, although DIB entities have mandatory reporting
requirements. The NSA’s newly created Cybersecurity
Directorate mission includes an important role in protecting the DIB.307
The companies most capable of participating in existing
information sharing programs are large prime contractors; however, DoD also relies on small to medium-sized
companies, as well as subcontractors. This gives rise to
two issues. First, DoD lacks a complete view of its supply
chain. Therefore, prime contractors should be incentivized to disclose their subcontractors to DoD. Second,
smaller entities with fewer resources to devote to cybersecurity may provide an opening for adversaries to access
information paramount to national security. Drawing on
DoD’s Cyber Maturity Model Certification (CMMC)
regulation, the requirements associated with participation
in a threat intelligence sharing program should be tied
to a firm’s level of maturity. In addition, the government
should communicate—particularly to small and medium-sized companies—the incentives for participation.
Congress should legislatively require companies that
make up the Defense Industrial Base, as part of the terms
of their contract with DoD, to participate in a threat
intelligence sharing program that would be housed at the
DoD component level. A DIB threat intelligence sharing
program should contain a number of key elements,
including:
• Incentives for certain types of specifically delineated
information sharing, such as incident reporting.

119

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

• A shared and real-time picture of the threat environment; joint, collaborative, and co-located analytics;
and investments in technology and capabilities to
support automated detection and analysis.
• Consent by DIB entities for the NSA to query in
foreign intelligence collection databases on DIB entities and provide focused threat intelligence to them,
as well as enable all elements of DoD, including
the NSA, to directly tip intelligence to the affected
entity.
• Further empowerment of and resources to the NSA’s
Cybersecurity Directorate, given that it is a new
entity with a critical mission.
• Coordinated intelligence sharing with relevant
domestic law enforcement and counterintelligence
agencies, including the FBI, Air Force Office of
Special Investigations, Naval Criminal Investigative
Service, U.S. Army Counterintelligence, and DoD
Cyber Crime Center.
The program’s ideal end state is to leverage U.S. government intelligence collection to create a better understanding of adversaries’ intelligence collection requirements.
This action would help DoD and the intelligence
community anticipate where adversaries will seek to
collect against DIB targets, and then communicate that
information to DIB network owners and operators so
that they can proactively defend against impending
adversary activities.

6.2.2 Require Threat Hunting on Defense
Industrial Base Networks
Improving the detection and mitigation of adversary
cyber threats to the DIB is imperative to ensuring that
key military systems and functions are resilient and
can be employed during times of crisis and conflict.
Congress should therefore direct regulatory action that
the executive branch should pursue in order to require
companies that make up the Defense Industrial Base, as
part of the terms of their contract with DoD, to create
a mechanism for mandatory threat hunting on DIB
networks. Malicious code, indicators of compromise,

120

and insights on the evolving threat landscape should be
shared with companies when operationally feasible. This
program could be modeled as a Pathfinder program with
different options for implementing threat hunting, such
as allowing DoD to conduct threat hunting on DIB
networks with prior notification and coordination with
DIB network owners, or incentivizing the DIB to seek
out DoD-approved third-party entities to conduct threat
hunting. These options should also take into account
variations in maturity across the DIB, leveraging DoD’s
CMMC security requirements.
A program for threat hunting on DIB networks should
also include the following:
• DoD threat assessment programs on DIB networks.
• Incentives for companies to feed data collected and
generated from threat hunting activities on DIB
networks to DoD and the NSA’s Cybersecurity
Directorate.
• Coordination of DoD efforts with DHS and the FBI
in furtherance of the latter’s domestic cybersecurity
and counterintelligence responsibilities.

6.2.3 Designate a Threat-Hunting Capability
across the Department of Defense
Information Network
Given the high consequence of cyber threats for the
entire DoD Information Network (DoDIN), including NC3 and NLCC, as well as across the combatant
commands, a dedicated threat-hunting capability is key
to ensuring the security and resilience of these systems.
In addition, because the NSA is the enterprise security
architect and builds the cryptography—fundamental to
the security of the U.S. military enterprise—that underlies these networks and systems, particularly NC3, its role
in this capacity should be formalized.
Therefore, DoD should provide for a force structure element to conduct threat hunting and related
activities across the entire DoDIN, covering the full
range of non-nuclear to nuclear force employment.
Specifically, DoD should develop a campaign plan for a

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER

threat-hunting capability that takes a risk-based approach
and that analyzes threat intelligence as well as assessments
of likely U.S. and allied targets of adversary interest.
Based on this analysis, the threat-hunting capability
should proactively conduct threat hunting against
those identified networks and assets to seek evidence of
compromise, identify vulnerabilities, and deploy countermeasures to enable early warning and thwart adversary
action. Given the potentially high consequence of cyber
threats to NC3 and NLCC, priority should be assigned
to identifying threats to these networks and systems, and
threat hunting on them should recur with a frequency
commensurate with the risk.

It is important to note that many threats will traverse
the boundaries of combatant commands, including U.S.
Cyber Command, U.S. Strategic Command, and the
geographic combatant commands. To ensure seamless
and flexible maneuver of this force structure element,
DoD should develop a process to reconcile the authorities and permissions to enable threat hunting across all
DoDIN networks, systems, and programs owned and
operated by multiple DoD stakeholders.

How Will the Future Age of Quantum Computing Change Cybersecurity?
On October 23, 2019, Google announced that its Sycamore processor had achieved “quantum supremacy,” the point at which
a quantum computer can verifiably outperform a classical computer as predicted hypothetically. Sycamore surpassed this
milestone by performing a computation in about 200 seconds that would take “a state-of-the-art classical supercomputer”
about 10,000 years.308 It was a historic achievement, but also another step along the long road to a quantum computer capable
of practical applications.
In the future, researchers will use practical quantum computers to develop exotic chemicals, materials, and pharmaceuticals.
They will expand our understanding of biology, physics, and the universe itself. Quantum computers will also revolutionize how
we use encryption.
In cyberspace encryption is an essential tool, critical to securing modern commerce, communications, and even classified
national security information. Popular encryption schemes today underpin the ability of people and organizations to establish
confidence in identities and the authenticity of software; information is encoded before being stored or transmitted to another
party, to be decoded only if an authorized user or recipient has the correct “key” to unlock the encryption scheme. Today,
classical computers working together and testing 1 trillion keys per second to break that same encryption key would need
as much as 10.79 quintillion years, or 785 million times the age of the known universe. However, a quantum computer could
perform the same task in about six months.309
The United States needs to start preparing itself for the day when quantum computing becomes practical enough to unlock
promising new opportunities—as well as all the secrets we have ever encrypted against mere classical computers. The federal
government has a central role to play in ensuring that U.S. research remains ahead of that of other countries, particularly
China. Both the public and private sectors will need a long-term plan to not only reap the benefits of quantum computing but
also fortify an internet of classical computing devices to survive an era of quantum threats.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

121

PILLARS AND KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

6.2.4 Assess and Address the Risk to
National Security Systems Posed by
Quantum Computing
The United States should continue to invest in quantum
information science, which offers immense opportunities
to improve U.S. military operational capabilities. At the
same time, it must also defend itself from the development of these technologies by a foreign adversary. For
instance, quantum technologies may present significant
risks to U.S. national security systems.310 Quantum
computing, in particular, has the potential to outperform
even the most powerful modern supercomputers in specific tasks. If sufficiently powerful quantum computing
can be applied to the decryption of encoded messages,
the encryption and authentication protocols currently in
use by all sensitive military and national security systems
could potentially be broken. Using this technology,
a foreign adversary could neutralize critical security
measures used to protect the United States’ most sensitive
communications, systems, and assets. In part to pursue
these applications, a number of nations across the globe,
including China, have invested significant resources in
both public and private efforts to develop a viable quantum computer. However, while the United States has
begun to take initial steps to develop “quantum-resistant”
encryption that would safeguard its sensitive systems,
it has yet to fully and comprehensively assess the risks

122

of quantum computing to national security systems or
estimate costs associated with upgrades or replacement.
To fully understand and prepare to counter the risks
of quantum computing to national security systems,
Congress should include language in the FY2021 NDAA
that requires DoD (NSA) to comprehensively assess
the threats and risks posed by quantum technologies to
national security systems and develop a plan to secure
those systems. This assessment should include the
following:
• Specific recommendations for addressing identified
risks and anticipated resource requirements.
• A proposed framework for how to prioritize the
defense of different national security systems and a
timeline for implementation.
• An assessment of ongoing efforts to develop quantum-resistant cryptographic standards, including
expected timelines for that development, budget
shortfalls in public-private efforts to reach such a
standard, and the feasibility of alternate quantum-resistant models, such as quantum cryptography.
After the initial assessment, Congress should require an
annual report from DoD on the status of ongoing assessments and efforts to address identified risks.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX A

ROLL-UP OF RECOMMENDATIONS
PILLAR 1: REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE
Key Recommendation 1.1: Issue an Updated National Cyber Strategy
Enabling Recommendation 1.1.1: Develop a Multitiered Signaling Strategy
Enabling Recommendation 1.1.2: Promulgate a New Declaratory Policy
Key Recommendation 1.2: Create House Permanent Select and Senate Select Committees on Cybersecurity
Enabling Recommendation 1.2.1: Reestablish the Office of Technology Assessment
Key Recommendation 1.3: Establish a National Cyber Director
Key Recommendation 1.4: Strengthen the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Enabling Recommendation 1.4.1: Codify and Strengthen the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center
Enabling Recommendation 1.4.2: Strengthen the FBI’s Cyber Mission and the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task
Force
Key Recommendation 1.5: Diversify and Strengthen the Federal Cyberspace Workforce
Enabling Recommendation 1.5.1: Improve Cyber-Oriented Education

PILLAR 2: STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS
Key Recommendation 2.1: Create a Cyber Bureau and Assistant Secretary at the U.S. Department of State
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.1: Strengthen Norms of Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.2: Engage Actively and Effectively in Forums Setting International Information and
Communications Technology Standards
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.3: Improve Cyber Capacity Building and Consolidate the Funding of Cyber Foreign
Assistance
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.4: Improve International Tools for Law Enforcement Activities in Cyberspace
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.5: Leverage Sanctions and Trade Enforcement Actions
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.6: Improve Attribution Analysis and the Attribution-Decision Rubric
Enabling Recommendation 2.1.7: Reinvigorate Efforts to Develop Cyber Confidence-Building Measures

PILLAR 3: PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE
Key Recommendation 3.1: Codify Sector-specific Agencies into Law as “Sector Risk Management Agencies” and
Strengthen Their Ability to Manage Critical Infrastructure Risk
Enabling Recommendation 3.1.1: Establish a Five-Year National Risk Management Cycle Culminating in a Critical
Infrastructure Resilience Strategy

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

123

APPENDIX A: ROLL-UP OF RECOMMENDATIONS

Enabling Recommendation 3.1.2: Establish a National Cybersecurity Assistance Fund to Ensure Consistent and Timely
Funding for Initiatives That Underpin National Resilience
Key Recommendation 3.2: Develop and Maintain Continuity of the Economy Planning
Key Recommendation 3.3: Codify a “Cyber State of Distress” Tied to a “Cyber Response and Recovery Fund”
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.1: Designate Responsibilities for Cybersecurity Services under the Defense Production
Act
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.2: Clarify Liability for Federally Directed Mitigation, Response, and Recovery Efforts
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.3: Improve and Expand Planning Capacity and Readiness for Cyber Incident Response
and Recovery Efforts
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.4: Expand Coordinated Cyber Exercises, Gaming, and Simulation
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.5: Establish a Biennial National Cyber Tabletop Exercise
Enabling Recommendation 3.3.6: Clarify the Cyber Capabilities and Strengthen the Interoperability of the National
Guard
Key Recommendation 3.4: Improve the Structure and Enhance Funding of the Election Assistance Commission
Enabling Recommendation 3.4.1: Modernize Campaign Regulations to Promote Cybersecurity
Key Recommendation 3.5: Build Societal Resilience to Foreign Malign Cyber-Enabled Information Operations
Enabling Recommendation 3.5.1: Reform Online Political Advertising to Defend against Foreign Influence in Elections

PILLAR 4: RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY
Key Recommendation 4.1: Establish and Fund a National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority
Enabling Recommendation 4.1.1: Create or Designate Critical Technology Security Centers
Enabling Recommendation 4.1.2: Expand and Support the National Institute of Standards and Technology Security
Work
Key Recommendation 4.2: Establish Liability for Final Goods Assemblers
Enabling Recommendation 4.2.1: Incentivize Timely Patch Implementation
Key Recommendation 4.3: Establish a Bureau of Cyber Statistics
Key Recommendation 4.4: Resource a Federally Funded Research and Development Center to Develop Cybersecurity
Insurance Certifications
Enabling Recommendation 4.4.1: Establish a Public-Private Partnership on Modeling Cyber Risk
Enabling Recommendation 4.4.2: Explore the Need for a Government Reinsurance Program to Cover Catastrophic
Cyber Events
Enabling Recommendation 4.4.3: Incentivize Information Technology Security through Federal Acquisition
Regulations and Federal Information Security Management Act Authorities
Enabling Recommendation 4.4.4: Amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to Include Cybersecurity Reporting Requirements

124

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX A: ROLL-UP OF RECOMMENDATIONS

Key Recommendation 4.5: Develop a Cloud Security Certification
Enabling Recommendation 4.5.1: Incentivize the Uptake of Secure Cloud Services for Small and Medium-Sized
Businesses and State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Governments
Enabling Recommendation 4.5.2: Develop a Strategy to Secure Foundational Internet Protocols and Email
Enabling Recommendation 4.5.3: Strengthen the U.S. Government’s Ability to Take Down Botnets
Key Recommendation 4.6: Develop and Implement an Information and Communications Technology Industrial Base
Strategy
Enabling Recommendation 4.6.1: Increase Support to Supply Chain Risk Management Efforts
Enabling Recommendation 4.6.2: Commit Significant and Consistent Funding toward Research and Development in
Emerging Technologies
Enabling Recommendation 4.6.3: Strengthen the Capacity of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United
States
Enabling Recommendation 4.6.4: Invest in the National Cyber Moonshot Initiative
Key Recommendation 4.7: Pass a National Data Security and Privacy Protection Law
Enabling Recommendation 4.7.1: Pass a National Breach Notification Law

PILLAR 5: OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Key Recommendation 5.1: Codify the Concept of “Systemically Important Critical Infrastructure”
Enabling Recommendation 5.1.1: Review and Update Intelligence Authorities to Increase Intelligence Support to the
Broader Private Sector
Enabling Recommendation 5.1.2: Strengthen and Codify Processes for Identifying Broader Private-Sector Cybersecurity
Intelligence Needs and Priorities
Enabling Recommendation 5.1.3: Empower Departments and Agencies to Serve Administrative Subpoenas in Support
of Threat and Asset Response Activities
Key Recommendation 5.2: Establish and Fund a Joint Collaborative Environment for Sharing and Fusing Threat
Information
Enabling Recommendation 5.2.1: Expand and Standardize Voluntary Threat Detection Programs
Enabling Recommendation 5.2.2: Pass a National Cyber Incident Reporting Law
Enabling Recommendation 5.2.3: Amend the Pen Register Trap and Trace Statute to Enable Better Identification of
Malicious Actors
Key Recommendation 5.3: Strengthen an Integrated Cyber Center within CISA and Promote the Integration of
Federal Cyber Centers
Key Recommendation 5.4: Establish a Joint Cyber Planning Cell under the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency
Enabling Recommendation 5.4.1: Institutionalize Department of Defense Participation in Public-Private Cybersecurity
Initiatives

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

125

APPENDIX A: ROLL-UP OF RECOMMENDATIONS

Enabling Recommendation 5.4.2: Expand Cyber Defense Collaboration with Information and Communications
Technology Enablers

PILLAR 6: PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENT OF POWER
Key Recommendation 6.1: Direct the Department of Defense to Conduct a Force Structure Assessment of the Cyber
Mission Force
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.1: Direct the Department of Defense to Create a Major Force Program Funding
Category for U.S. Cyber Command
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.2: Expand Current Malware Inoculation Initiatives
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.3: Review the Delegation of Authorities for Cyber Operations
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.4: Reassess and Amend Standing Rules of Engagement and Standing Rules for Use of
Force for U.S. Forces
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.5: Cooperate with Allies and Partners to Defend Forward
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.6: Require the Department of Defense to Define Reporting Metrics
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.7: Assess the Establishment of a Military Cyber Reserve
Enabling Recommendation 6.1.8: Establish Title 10 Professors in Cyber Security and Information Operations
Key Recommendation 6.2: Conduct a Cybersecurity Vulnerability Assessment of All Segments of the NC3 and NLCC
Systems and Continually Assess Weapon Systems’ Cyber Vulnerabilities
Enabling Recommendation 6.2.1: Require Defense Industrial Base Participation in a Threat Intelligence Sharing
Program
Enabling Recommendation 6.2.2: Require Threat Hunting on Defense Industrial Base Networks
Enabling Recommendation 6.2.3: Designate a Threat-Hunting Capability across the Department of Defense
Information Network
Enabling Recommendation 6.2.4: Assess and Address the Risk to National Security Systems Posed by Quantum
Computing

126

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX B

LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
Listed below are the recommendations of the Commission that have corresponding draft legislative proposals. These
legislative proposals reflect the Commission staff’s best effort to capture the spirit of the Commission recommendations. The
proposals have not been adopted by the Commission, and are not representative of any Commissioner’s views. The proposals
represent one possible manner of implementing the Commission’s recommendations. Legislative proposals are available
online at www.solarium.gov

PILLAR 1: REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE
Recommendation 1.2: Create House Permanent Select and Senate Select Committees on Cybersecurity
Recommendation 1.3: Establish a National Cyber Director
Recommendation 1.4.1: Codify and Strengthen the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center
Recommendation 1.5: Diversify and Strengthen the Federal Cyberspace Workforce

PILLAR 2: STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY INSTRUMENTS OF POWER
Recommendation 2.1: Create a Cyber Bureau and Assistant Secretary at the U.S. Department of State
Recommendation 2.1.4: Improve International Tools for Law Enforcement Activities in Cyberspace [Provide MLAT
Subpoena Authority and Increase FBI Cyber ALATs]
Recommendation 2.1.5: Leverage Sanctions and Trade Enforcement Actions [Codify Executive Order 13848]

PILLAR 3: PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE
Recommendation 3.1: Codify Sector-specific Agencies into Law as “Sector Risk Management Agencies” and Strengthen
Their Ability to Manage Critical Infrastructure Risk
Recommendation 3.1.1: Establish a Five-Year National Risk Management Cycle Culminating in a Critical Infrastructure
Resilience Strategy
Recommendation 3.1.2: Establish a National Cybersecurity Assistance Fund to Ensure Consistent and Timely Funding for
Initiatives That Underpin National Resilience
Recommendation 3.2: Develop and Maintain Continuity of the Economy Planning
Recommendation 3.3: Codify a “Cyber State of Distress” Tied to a “Cyber Response and Recovery Fund”
Recommendation 3.3.2: Clarify Liability for Federally Directed Mitigation, Response, and Recovery Efforts
Recommendation 3.3.5: Establish a Biennial National Cyber Tabletop Exercise
Recommendation 3.3.6: Clarify the Cyber Capabilities and Strengthen the Interoperability of the National Guard
Recommendation 3.4: Improve the Structure and Enhance Funding of the Election Assistance Commission
Recommendation 3.4.1: Modernize Campaign Regulations to Promote Cybersecurity

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

127

APPENDIX B: LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS

Recommendation 3.5: Build Societal Resilience to Cyber-Enabled Information Operations [Educational and Awareness
Grant Programs]
Recommendation 3.5.1: Reform Online Political Advertising to Defend against Foreign Influence in Elections

PILLAR 4: RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARD GREATER SECURITY
Recommendation 4.1: Establish and Fund a National Cybersecurity Certification and Labeling Authority
Recommendation 4.1.1: Create or Designate Critical Technology Security Centers
Recommendation 4.2: Establish Liability for Final Goods Assemblers
Recommendation 4.3: Establish a Bureau of Cyber Statistics
Recommendation 4.4: Resource a Federally Funded Research and Development Center to Develop Cybersecurity Insurance
Certifications
Recommendation 4.4.4: Amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to Include Cybersecurity Reporting Requirements
Recommendation 4.5: Develop a Cloud Security Certification
Recommendation 4.5.1: Incentivize the Uptake of Secure Cloud Services for Small and Medium-Sized Businesses and State,
Local, Tribal, and Territorial Governments
Recommendation 4.5.2: Develop a Strategy to Secure Foundational Internet Protocols and Email
Recommendation 4.5.3: Strengthen the U.S. Government’s Ability to Take Down Botnets
Recommendation 4.6: Develop and Implement an Information and Communications Technology Industrial Base Strategy
Recommendation 4.7: Pass a National Data Security and Privacy Protection Law
Recommendation 4.7.1: Pass a National Breach Notification Law

PILLAR 5: OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Recommendation 5.1: Codify the Concept of “Systemically Important Critical Infrastructure”
Recommendation 5.1.1: Review and Update Intelligence Authorities to Increase Intelligence Support to the Broader Private
Sector
Recommendation 5.1.2: Strengthen and Codify Processes for Identifying Broader Private-Sector Cybersecurity Intelligence
Needs and Priorities
Recommendation 5.1.3: Empower Departments and Agencies to Serve Administrative Subpoenas in Support of Threat and
Asset Response Activities
Recommendation 5.2: Establish and Fund a Joint Collaborative Environment for Sharing and Fusing Threat Information
Recommendation 5.2.2: Pass a National Cyber Incident Reporting Law
Recommendation 5.2.3: Amend the Pen Register Trap and Trace Statute to Enable Better Identification of Malicious Actors
Recommendation 5.3: Strengthen an Integrated Cyber Center within CISA and Promote the Integration of Federal Cyber
Centers
Recommendation 5.4.1: Institutionalize Department of Defense Participation in Public-Private Cybersecurity Initiatives

128

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX B: LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS

PILLAR 6: PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENTS OF POWER
Recommendations 6.1 & 6.1.3: Direct the Department of Defense to Conduct a Force Structure Assessment of the Cyber
Mission Force / Review the Delegation of Authorities for Cyber Operations
Recommendation 6.1.1: Direct the Department of Defense to Create a Major Force Program Funding Category for U.S.
Cyber Command
Recommendation 6.1.7: Assess the Establishment of a Military Cyber Reserve
Recommendation 6.2: Conduct a Cybersecurity Vulnerability Assessment of All Segments of the NC3 and NLCC Systems
and Continually Assess Weapon Systems Cyber Vulnerabilities
Recommendation 6.2.1: Require Defense Industrial Base Participation in a Threat Intelligence Sharing Program
Recommendation 6.2.2: Require Threat Hunting on Defense Industrial Base Networks
Recommendation 6.2.4: Assess and Address the Risk to National Security Systems Posed by Quantum Computing

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
Establish a Means to Monitor and Support Implementation of Report Recommendations

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

129

APPENDIX C

GLOSSARY
Editor’s note: Many of the terms and definitions listed below are context dependent. Therefore, the definitions provided capture only the understanding of the Commissioners in the scope of their deliberations and this report; they are not intended
to provide legal or political interpretations or technical standards.
access

Entry into an information or operational technology system.

advanced persistent
threat (APT)

A sophisticated adversary that (i) pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended
period of time, (ii) adapts to defenders’ efforts to resist it, and (iii) is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives.

artificial intelligence
(AI)

The theory, development, and simulation of computer systems able to perform tasks
normally requiring human intelligence.

attack vector
attribute
attribution
backdoor
Border Gateway
Protocol

Mechanism or method used by an attacker to gain access to a target’s computer system
and/or deliver an effect.
Any distinctive feature, characteristic, or property of an object that can be identified or
isolated quantitatively or qualitatively by either human or automated means.
Identification of technical evidence of a cyber event and/or the assignment of responsibility for a cyber event. The technical source may be different from the responsible actor.
An intentionally designed vulnerability that enables access to a computer system.
A protocol designed to optimize routing of information exchanged through the internet.

bot

A computer that has been compromised with malware to perform activities under the
remote command and control of an administrator.

botnet

A network of compromised computers (or bots) under unified command and control.

business continuity

The documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures that describes
how an organization’s mission/business processes will be sustained during and after a
significant disruption.

byte

A unit of digital information consisting of 8 bits (binary digits: each bit corresponds to a
choice between two alternatives).

client

A remote application or system that is used to connect to a server.

cloud computing

A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool
of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and
services) that can be rapidly provided to users with minimal management effort or service
provider interaction.

Committee on
Foreign Investment in
the United States

U.S. government’s interagency committee authorized to review certain transactions involving foreign investment in the United States and certain real estate transactions, in order to
determine the effect of such transactions on the national security of the United States.

130

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

compromise

Unauthorized access to a computer, network, data, or system.

computer emergency/
incident response
team (CERT/CIRT)

A group of individuals, usually consisting of security analysts, organized to develop, recommend, and coordinate immediate mitigation actions for containment, eradication, and
recovery resulting from computer security incidents. Often a government entity.

computer network
attack (CNA)

Actions taken through the use of computer networks to disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy
information resident in computers and computer networks, or in transit, or the computers
and networks themselves.

computer network
defense (CND)

Actions taken to defend against unauthorized activity within computer networks. CND
includes monitoring, detection, analysis, and response and restoration activities.

computer network
exploitation (CNE)

Enabling operations and intelligence collection capabilities conducted through the use
of computer networks to gather data from target or adversary information systems or
networks.

confidentiality

The preservation of authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including
means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.

Continuity of
Government (COG)

An effort to establish executive branch preparedness for and resilience to threats to the
National Capital Region.

Continuity of
Operations (COOP)

An effort within individual executive departments and agencies to ensure that Primary
Mission Essential Functions (PMEFs) continue to be performed during a wide range of
emergencies, including localized acts of nature, accidents, and technological or attack-related emergencies.

Continuity of the
Economy (COTE)

An effort to ensure that critical data and technology would be available, with priority for
critical functions across corporations and industry sectors, to get the economy back up and
running after a catastrophic event.

critical infrastructure

Systems and assets, physical and virtual, so vital to the United States that their incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic
security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.

Critical Infrastructure
Resilience Strategy

A proposed strategy that will set programmatic and budgetary priorities for a five-year
national risk management cycle.

Critical Technology
Security Centers

cryptocurrency

cyber

cyber actor/cyber
operator

Proposed entities/programs that provide the U.S. government with the capacity to test the
security of critical technologies and, when appropriate, assist in identifying vulnerabilities,
as well as developing and pushing mitigation techniques with relevant original equipment
manufacturers.
A type of digital currency in which encryption techniques are used to secure transactions
and control the creation of additional units while operating independently of a central
bank.
Relating to, involving, or characteristic of computers, computer networks, information and
communications technology (ICT), virtual systems, or computer-enabled control of physical
components.
A person who employs the functions of computer networks, systems, devices, or services.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

131

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

cyberattack

cyber campaign
cybercrime
cyber disruption
cyber effect

cyber espionage

A cyber operation or series of cyber operations conducted by a single responsible party
with the intention of achieving a strategic objective.
A cyber operation that is primarily motivated by reasons other than national security or
geopolitical objectives.
An event that is likely to cause or is causing the temporary loss of normal cyber operations
or services.
The manipulation, disruption, denial, degradation, or destruction of data, computers, information or communication systems, networks, physical or virtual infrastructure controlled by
computers or information systems, or information resident on them or in transit.
Cyber operation whose primary purpose is to steal information for national security or
commercial purposes.

Cyber Response and
Recovery Fund

A new fund, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency but directed by
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. Cyber Recovery Fund disbursement
would be triggered by a “cyber state of distress” declaration. The funds could be used for
a variety of purposes, including direct assistance to entities through purchases of equipment and services for their rapid response and recovery.

cyber risk

Risk of financial loss, legal liability, reputational damage, regulatory action, operational disruption, or damage from the failure of the digital technologies employed for informational
and/or operational functions introduced to a manufacturing system via electronic means
from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of
the manufacturing system.

cybersecurity

Prevention of damage to, protection of, and restoration of computers, electronic communications systems, electronic communications services, wire communication, and electronic
communication. This includes ensuring the availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation of the information contained therein.

cyberspace

A global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent
networks of information technology infrastructures and resident data, including the
internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and
controllers.

cyber state of distress

cyber threat
database

132

Action taken in cyberspace that creates noticeable denial effects (i.e., degradation, disruption, or destruction) in cyberspace or manipulation that leads to denial that appears in a
physical domain.

A proposed federal declaration that would trigger additional financial and material
assistance. The declaration would be used exclusively for responding to, or preemptively
preparing for, cyber incidents that are more serious than “routine” but do not warrant an
emergency declaration.
A capability and intent that intentionally compromises the confidentiality, integrity, reliability, or availability of digital devices, systems, networks, or data in transit or at rest.
A structured repository of data that is organized to provide efficient retrieval.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

data breach

The unauthorized movement or disclosure of sensitive information to a party, usually outside the organization, that is not authorized to have or see that information.

data hosting

The activity or business of providing hardware, systems, software, and infrastructure to
store and manage access to data.

data governance

A set of processes or rules that ensure the integrity of data and that data management
best practices are met.

data/data set

Quantitative or qualitative raw material used to represent information, or from which
information can be derived.

decryption

The process of transforming cipher text into readable text using a cryptographic algorithm
and key.

deepfake

A digital picture or video that has been maliciously edited using an algorithm in a way that
makes the video appear authentic.

defend forward

The proactive observing, pursuing, and countering of adversary operations and imposing
of costs in day-to-day competition to disrupt and defeat ongoing malicious adversary
cyber campaigns, deter future campaigns, and reinforce favorable international norms
of behavior, using all of the instruments of national power. This is a reimagining and
expansion of the defend forward concept as initially conceived of in the 2018 DoD Cyber
Strategy, which focuses solely on the military instrument.

defensive cyber
campaign

A coordinated set of actions across the U.S. government, utilizing any or all available
instruments of U.S. national power, to respond to an adversary cyber campaign, mitigate
its potential effects, and impose consequences.

defensive cyber
operations

Missions to preserve the ability to utilize one’s own network capabilities and protect data,
computers, cyberspace-enabled devices, and other designated systems by defeating
ongoing or imminent malicious cyberspace activity. Also called DCO.

denial-of-service
attack (see also:
distributed denial-ofservice attack)
deterrence
digital citizenship

digital literacy
direct recording
electronic (DRE)
voting machine

A type of cyber action designed to prevent users from accessing a network-connected
service by sending legitimate requests from one source to overload a network’s resources.

Dissuading someone from doing something by making them believe that the costs to
them will exceed their expected benefit.
The position or status of being an internet user, particularly as it pertains to knowledge of
responsible behaviors pertaining to internet use, including internet safety, digital footprint,
online media balance, cyberbullying, online privacy and communication, information
literacy, creative credit and copyright, and other related topics.
The ability to use information and communication technologies to find, evaluate, create,
and communicate information, requiring both cognitive and technical skills.
A device that records votes by means of a ballot display provided with mechanical or
electro-optical components that can be activated by the voter (typically buttons or a touchscreen), that processes data by means of a computer program, and that records voting
data and ballot images in memory components.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

133

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

disinformation
distributed denialof-service attack
(see also: denial-ofservice attack)
Domain-based
Message
Authentication,
Reporting &
Conformance
domain name

False information deliberately spread to deceive.
A denial of service technique that uses numerous hosts to perform the attack.

An email authentication, policy, and reporting protocol that verifies the authenticity of the
sender of an email and blocks and reports fraudulent accounts.

A unique name composed of alphanumeric characters that identifies a website and
appears in the address bar of the web browser.

Domain Name System

A system that stores information associated with domain names in a distributed database
on networks.

election infrastructure

Information and communications technology and systems used by or on behalf of the
federal government or a state or local government in managing the election process,
including voter registration databases, voting machines, voting tabulation equipment, and
equipment for the secure transmission of election results.

encryption
end-to-end encryption
exfiltration
exploit
exploitation

A procedure to convert plain text into cipher text.
Communications encryption in which data is encrypted when being passed through a
network, but routing information remains visible.
The transfer of data from an information system.
Software that takes advantage of a vulnerability to undermine a computer’s security.
The act of extracting and gathering intelligence data.

fifth-generation
wireless network (5G)

A set of wireless software and hardware technologies that will produce a significant
improvement in data speed, volume, and latency (delay in data transfer) over fourth-generation (4G and 4G LTE) networks.

final goods assembler

The entity that is most responsible for the placement of a product or service into the
stream of commerce.

firewall
firmware

Software programmed into read-only memory (ROM).

gateway

A node that attaches to two (or more) computer networks that have similar functions but
dissimilar implementations and that enables either one-way or two-way communication
between the networks.

hacker

134

Devices or systems that act as a protective barrier controlling the flow of network traffic
between networks or between a host and a network.

Unauthorized user who attempts to gain or successfully gains access to an information
system.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

hardware

The physical components of an information system.

honeypot

A computer security mechanism to detect, deflect, or counteract unauthorized access to
computer systems by acting as a decoy to attract or bait internet users seeking to obtain
unauthorized access.

Hunt and Incident
Response Team
hunt forward
implant

A set of teams within the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency that provides
onsite incident response, free of charge, to organizations that require immediate investigation and resolution of cyberattacks.
U.S. efforts with allies and partners to conduct threat hunting and pursue adversaries on
allied and partner networks.
Hardware or software designed to enable unauthorized functions on a compromised
computer system.

industrial control
system (ICS)

An information system, both hardware and software, specifically designed to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution.

information
operations

The integrated employment of the core capabilities of electronic warfare, computer
network operations, psychological operations, military deception, and operations security,
in concert with specified supporting and related capabilities, to influence, disrupt, corrupt,
or usurp adversarial human and automated decision-making process, information, and
information systems.

information security
(INFOSEC)
information system
(IS)
information
technology (IT)

innovation base of the
United States

insider threat

The protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use,
disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality,
integrity, and availability.
A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
All categories of ubiquitous technology used for the gathering, storing, transmitting,
retrieving, or processing of information (e.g., microelectronics, printed circuit boards, computing systems, software, signal processors, mobile telephony, satellite communications,
and networks).
The American network of knowledge, capabilities, and people—including those in academia, National Laboratories, and the private sector—that turns ideas into innovations,
transforms discoveries into successful commercial products and companies, and protects
and enhances the American way of life.
The threat that an insider will use their authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do
harm to the organization.

integrity

The guard against improper information modification or destruction, including assurance
of information nonrepudiation and authenticity.

internet

The single, interconnected, worldwide system of commercial, governmental, educational,
and other computer networks that share (i) the protocol suite specified by the Internet
Architecture Board (IAB) and (ii) the name and address spaces managed by the Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

135

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

Internet of Things
(IoT)

A concept that describes everyday physical objects being connected to the internet and
identifying themselves to other devices.

in the wild

A term that can be used to describe malware in general use (thereby making attribution
difficult) or an unpatched or unknown vulnerability discovered in an information system.

intrusion

A computer system compromise, in which an intruder gains, or attempts to gain, access to
a system or system resource without having authorization to do so.

intrusion detection
system (IDS)

A software application that can be implemented on host operating systems or as network
devices to monitor activity that is associated with intrusions or insider misuse, or both.

Joint Cyber Planning
Cell

A proposed cell within the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency that would
facilitate comprehensive operational planning of defensive, non-intelligence cybersecurity
campaigns across agencies.

machine learning
malicious code
malware

Software or firmware intended to perform an unauthorized process that will have adverse
impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system.
A computer program that is clandestinely placed onto a computer with the intent to
compromise the privacy, accuracy, or reliability of the computer’s data, applications, or
operating system.

multi-factor
authentication

Authentication using two or more factors to achieve authentication. Factors include something you know, something you have, or something you are.

national critical
functions

The functions of government and the private sector that are so vital to the United States
that their disruption, corruption, or dysfunction would have a debilitating effect on security,
national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of these
elements.

National
Cybersecurity
Assistance Fund

A proposed fund administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency that
would distribute grants to public and private entities for solutions, projects, and programs
where a) there is a clearly defined, critical risk to be mitigated, b) market forces do not provide sufficient private sector incentives to mitigate the risk without government investment,
and c) there is clear federal need, role, and responsibility in mitigating the risk

National
Cybersecurity
Certification and
Labeling Authority

136

A subfield of computer science in which computers learn without being explicitly programmed and automate analytic model building.

A proposed organization that would be charged with certifying critical information technologies against frameworks based on identified and vetted security standards and with
supporting and endorsing product labeling, building on existing work on Software Bills of
Material at the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.

national security
industrial sector

The worldwide industrial complex that enables research and development, as well as the
design, production, delivery, and maintenance of military weapons systems, subsystems,
and components or parts, to meet U.S. military requirements (also referred to as the
defense industrial base).

network resilience

A computing infrastructure that provides continuous business operation, rapid recovery if
failure does occur, and the ability to scale up to meet rapid or unpredictable demands.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

nonrepudiation

Assurance that the sender is provided with proof of delivery and that the recipient is provided with proof of the sender’s identity so that neither can later deny having processed
the data.

non-state actor

An organization or individual that is not affiliated with a nation-state.

norm

A collective expectation for the proper behavior of actors with a given identity.

offensive cyber
operations

Cyberspace operations intended to project power by the application of force in or through
cyberspace.

operational
technology

Hardware and software that detects or causes a change through the direct monitoring and/
or control of physical devices, processes, and events in the enterprise.

packet
patch

penetration testing
persistent
engagement
phishing

post-election audit

protocol

The logical unit of network communications produced by the transport layer.
A software component that, when installed, directly modifies files or device settings related
to a different software component without changing the version number or release details
for the related software component.
Security testing in which evaluators mimic real-world attacks in an attempt to identify ways
to exploit, gain unauthorized access, or circumvent an application, system, or network.
The concept by which U.S. Cyber Command implements defend forward. It is based on
the idea that adversaries are in constant contact in cyberspace. Its elements are enabling
partners and acting as far forward as possible.
A technique for attempting to acquire sensitive data through a fraudulent solicitation in
email or on a web site, in which the perpetrator masquerades as a legitimate, reputable, or
known-to-the-user person or business.
Any review conducted after polls close for the purpose of determining whether the votes
were counted accurately (a results audit) or whether proper procedures were followed (a
process audit), or both.
A set of rules to implement and control some type of association between systems.

public key
infrastructure (PKI)

A software-based system designed to provide confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity in
communications; it relies on asymmetric cryptography.

quantum computer

A collection of interacting quantum mechanical systems, such as superconductors or
trapped ions, that can be manipulated to process information.

ransomware
reconnaissance

Malware installed on a victim’s device that mounts either an extortion attack that holds the
victim’s data hostage or threatens to publish the victim’s data until a ransom is paid.
An action to discover malicious tools or vulnerabilities in a targeted system or network.

red team

A group of people authorized and organized to emulate a potential adversary’s attack or
exploitation capabilities against an enterprise’s security posture.

resilience

The capacity to withstand and quickly recover from attacks that could compel, deter,
restrain, or otherwise shape U.S. behavior.

router

A device that determines the best path for forwarding a data packet toward its destination.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

137

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

sandbox

sector risk
management agency

A proposed designation for a federal agency that codifies the minimum roles and responsibilities of a sector-specific agency.

sector-specific
agencies

Federal agencies that have institutional knowledge and specialized expertise about a
critical infrastructure sector.

significant
consequences

Effects that may include loss of life, significant damage to property, significant national
security consequences, or significant economic impact on the United States.

significant cyber
incident

social engineering
software
spam
spoofing
supervisory control
and data acquisition
(SCADA)

A cyber incident that is (or group of related cyber incidents that together are) likely to
result in demonstrable harm to the national security interests, foreign relations, or economy of the United States or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or public health and
safety of the American people.
The practice of manipulating legitimate users to allow increased access to a system by an
illegitimate user.
A computer program written in a computing language.
Electronic junk mail or the abuse of electronic messaging systems to indiscriminately send
unsolicited messages.
A fraudulent or malicious practice in which communication is sent from an unknown source
disguised as a source known to the receiver.
A generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing
data and applying operational controls over long distances.

supply chain

A system of organizations, people, activities, information, and resources, possibly international in scope, that provides products or services to consumers.

supply chain
compromise

An occurrence within the supply chain whereby an adversary jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a system or the information that the system processes, stores,
or transmits.

supply chain
management

A cross-functional approach to procuring, producing, and delivering products and services
to customers.

supply chain risk
management

systemically important
critical infrastructure
(SICI)
threat

138

A system that allows an untrusted application to run in a highly controlled environment where the application’s permissions are restricted to an essential set of computer
permissions.

A systematic process for managing supply chain risk by identifying susceptibilities, vulnerabilities, and threats throughout the supply chain and developing mitigation strategies
to combat those threats whether presented by the supplier, the product and its subcomponents, or the supply chain itself (e.g., initial production, packaging, handling, storage,
transport, mission operation, and disposal).
A proposed designation of critical infrastructure entities that manage systems and assets
whose disruption could have cascading, destabilizing effects on U.S. national security,
economic security, and public health and safety.
An event or condition that has the potential for causing harm.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX C: GLOSSARY

trojan horse

troll

unauthorized access
virus

A computer program that appears to have a useful function, but also has a hidden and
potentially malicious function that evades security mechanisms, sometimes by exploiting
legitimate authorizations of a system entity that invokes the program.
A person or group of people that invites discord on the internet by starting arguments or
posting inflammatory, extraneous, or off-topic messages in an online community with the
deliberate intent of provoking readers into an emotional response or otherwise disrupting
normal on-topic discussion.
Logical or physical access gained without permission to a network, system, application,
data, or other resources.
Code that runs on a computer without the user’s knowledge, infecting the computer when
the code is accessed and executed. It spreads via interaction.

voter-verifiable paper
audit trail (VVPAT)

Hardware, added to an existing DRE voting machine, that provides a physical record of a
voter’s electronic selection. See also: direct recording electronic voting machine.

whole-ofgovernment

U.S. government agencies working across boundaries and through interagency cooperation to achieve shared goals and/or an integrated government response.

whole-of-nation

Concerted and cooperative efforts among partners across agencies and the private sector
to facilitate ease of operation and/or reach common goals.

zero-day attack

A cyber exploit that relies on exploiting an unknown or undisclosed vulnerability in the
design or implementation of a system to violate its security.

Many of the definitions in this glossary are taken or adapted from the following sources:
• Defense Innovation Board, The 5G Ecosystem: Risks & Opportunities for DoD (April 2019)
• “Glossary,” ISACA, 2020, https://www.isaca.org/resources/glossary
• Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms (January 2020)
• “Explore Terms: A Glossary of Common Cybersecurity Terminology,” National Initiative for Cybersecurity Careers
and Studies, November 28, 2018, https://niccs.us-cert.gov/about-niccs/glossary
• “Glossary,” National Institute of Standards and Technology, Computer Security Resource Center,
https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary
• “Glossary of Security Terms,” SANS, 2020, https://www.sans.org/security-resources/glossary-of-terms/
Other U.S. government sources were also consulted.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

139

APPENDIX D

ABBREVIATIONS
5G

fifth-generation

DIB

Defense Industrial Base

AI

artificial intelligence

DISA

Defense Information Systems Agency

ALAT

Assistant Legal Attaché

DNS

Domain Name System

APT

advanced persistent threat

DoD

Department of Defense

BGP

Border Gateway Protocol

DoDIN

CAATSA

Countering America’s Adversaries Through
Sanctions Act

Department of Defense Information
Network

DOJ

Department of Justice

CBMs

confidence-building measures

DSB

Defense Science Board

CDI

Cyber Deterrence Initiative

EAC

Election Assistance Commission

CFIUS

Committee on Foreign Investment in the
United States

EOP

Executive Office of the President

EU

European Union

CI

critical infrastructure

FBI

Federal Bureau of Investigation

CIDAWG

Cyber Incident Data and Analysis Working
Group

FECA

Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971

CISA

Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency

FedRAMP

Federal Risk and Authorization
Management Program

CITF

Cyber Instability Task Force

FEMA

Federal Emergency Management Agency

CMF

Cyber Mission Force

FFRDC

Federally Funded Research and
Development Center

CMMC

Cyber Maturity Model Certification

FIRRMA

COTE

Continuity of the Economy

Foreign Investment Risk Review
Modernization Act

CSD

Cybersecurity Directorate

FSARC

CSET

Cyberspace Security and Emerging
Technologies

Financial Systemic Analysis and Resilience
Center

FY

fiscal year

CSP

communication service provider

GAO

Government Accountability Office

CTIIC

Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration
Center

GPS

Global Positioning System

G7

Group of Seven

CTMS

Cyber Talent Management System

G20

Group of Twenty

DARPA

Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency

ICC/JOC

Integrated Cyber Center and Joint
Operations Center

DC3

Department of Defense Cyber Crime
Center

ICT

information and communications
technology

DDoS

distributed denial-of-service

ILEA

International Law Enforcement Academy

DFC

United States International Development
Finance Corporation

INL

Idaho National Lab

DHS

Department of Homeland Security

IO

information operations

140

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX D: ABBREVIATIONS

IoT

Internet of Things

IP

intellectual property

IRA

Internet Research Agency

ISAC

information sharing and analysis center

IT

information technology

ITU

NSTAC

National Security Telecommunications
Advisory Committee

NTIA

National Telecommunications and
Information Agency

ODNI

Office of the Director of National
Intelligence

International Telecommunications Union

OEWG

Open-Ended Working Group

JCPC

Joint Cyber Planning Cell

OPE

MFP

Major Force Program

operational preparation of the
environment

MILDEC

military deception

OMB

Office of Management and Budget

MISO

Military Information Support Operations

OSCE

ML

machine learning

Organization for Security and
Co-operation in Europe

MLAA

Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement

OTA

Office of Technology Assessment

MLAT

Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty

PLA

People’s Liberation Army

MOU

memorandum of understanding

PME

Professional Military Education

NATO

North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PRTT

Pen Register Trap and Trace

NCCIC

National Cybersecurity and
Communications Integration Center

R&D

research and development

SFOPS

NCD

National Cyber Director

State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs

NCFTA

National Cyber-Forensics and Training
Alliance

SICI

systemically important critical
infrastructure

NCIJTF

National Cyber Investigative Joint Task
Force

SLTT

state, local, tribal, and territorial

SROE

Standing Rules of Engagement

NC3

nuclear command, control, and
communications

SRUF

Standing Rules for Use of Force

SSA

sector-specific agency

NDAA

National Defense Authorization Act

STEM

NGO

nongovernmental organization

science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics

NICE

National Initiative on Cybersecurity
Education

TLS

Transport Layer Security

TTPs

tactics, techniques, and procedures

NIST

National Institute of Standards and
Technology

U.K.

United Kingdom

NLCC

National Leadership Command
Capabilities

UN

United Nations

UN GGE

NSA

National Security Agency

NSC

National Security Council

United Nations Group of Governmental
Experts on Developments in the Field of
Information and Telecommunications in
the Context of International Security

NSDD

National Security Decision Directive

U.S.

United States

NSF

National Science Foundation

USAID

NSPM

National Security Presidential
Memorandum

United States Agency for International
Development

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

141

APPENDIX E

GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE FOR
CYBERSECURITY

RelationshipofofCommission
Commission Recommenda
Recommend
Relationship
Existing and no recommended change
Strengthening recommendation
Elevated, Consolidated, or New Entity
* Co-Chaired by DoD, DHS, and Commerce
1.1.1

White Hou

Numbers Correspond to Report Recommendations

National
Security
Advisor
Office of the Director
of National
Intelligence

Dept of State

Assistant Sec
of State for
Cyber 2.1
Bureau of
Cyberspace
Security and
Emerging
Technology 2.1

CTIIC
1.4.1

ODNI Intelligence
Community
Security Coord
Center

N

Dept o
Defen
NSA CSD
5.3

US Cyber
Command

NSA - National
Cyber Threat
Ops Center
(NCTOC)

Cyber Mission
Force 6.1
USCC Joint
Ops Center

DoD Public-Pr
Cybersecur
Initiative
(Pathfinder) 5

142

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX E: GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE FOR CYBERSECURITY

ndations to
to Existing
Existing Cyber
ndations
Cyber Organizations
Organizations

Congress &
Congressional
Committees 1.2

House

National Cyber
Director 1.3

Dept of
efense
Dept of
Defense Cyber
Crimes Center

sion
.1

oint
ter

ic-Private
security
ative
der) 5.4.1

Dept of
Homeland
Security

Dept of Justice
/ FBI

FBI Cyber
Division 1.4.2

CISA
1.4

FFRDC
Insurance
Certifications 4.4

Dept of
Commerce

NIST
4.1.2

NCIJTF
1.4.2

National Risk
Management
Center 3.1

Bureau of
Cyber Statistics
4.3

FBI Field Offices
/ Cyber Task
Forces 1.4.2

Integrated
Cyber Center /
NCCIC 5.3

NCCLA
(Certification &
Labeling) * 4.5

FBI Cyber
Attaché / MLAT
2.1.4

Joint Cyber
Planning Cell
5.4

Critical Tech
Security
Centers
4.1.1

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

143

APPENDIX F

SITUATING LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE
Layered deterrence builds on studies published over the past five years that explore how to secure American interests in
cyberspace. It draws on these reports and studies and adds important new elements to provide a comprehensive blueprint for
reducing the severity and frequency of cyberattacks. Two elements make the strategy distinct. First, layered cyber deterrence
integrates multiple deterrent mechanisms (i.e., layers) to change the cost-benefit calculus of adversaries. It incorporates the
Department of Defense (DoD) concept of defend forward, while managing escalation risks. Second, layered cyber deterrence’s whole-of-nation approach surpasses previous attempts to expand the deterrent capabilities available to the nation.
The strategy encourages a collaborative, persistent, mutually beneficial deterrent posture that defends American society.

WHAT IS DIFFERENT IN
LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

STUDY

WHAT IS SIMILAR

2019 National Infrastructure
Advisory Council’s
Transforming U.S. Cyber
Threat Partnership

Describes the need to partner with the
owners and operators of the most critical
infrastructure and improve intelligence
sharing between government and
industry.

Places greater emphasis on the private-sector role in supporting the
government.

2018 U.S. National Cyber
Strategy

Defines the threat as state and non-state
and describes how it affects the whole of
American society.

Combines multiple deterrent and compellent logics while emphasizing public-private collaboration and integrating
defend forward.

2018 Department of
Defense Cyber Strategy

Defines “defend forward” as a proactive
approach to addressing malicious adversary behavior.

Broadens the range of strategic options
available (i.e., multiple instruments of
power) and describes how to approach
securing cyberspace through a whole-ofnation framework.

2018 United States Cyber
Command Vision

Defines “defend forward” as operating as
closely as possible to the origin of adversary activity and persistently contesting
malicious actors consistent with international law.

Adopts a whole-of-nation approach,
rather than focusing solely on persistent
engagement.

2018 Department of
Homeland Security
Cybersecurity Strategy

Focuses on a prioritized and comprehensive risk-based approach to securing
critical systems.

Integrates national resilience and protecting critical infrastructure into a larger
framework that builds on multiple deterrent and compellent logics and maps
how to create incentives for public-private collaboration.

144

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX F: SITUATING LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

STUDY

WHAT IS SIMILAR

WHAT IS DIFFERENT IN
LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE

2018 Defense Science
Board’s Task Force on
Cyber as a Strategic
Capability

Discusses the cyber threat as it relates
not just to offensive capabilities but
also to weaponized social media and
disinformation.

Focuses on a broader array of threat
actors and ways to defend American
interests in cyberspace.

2018 National Security
Telecommunications
Advisory Committee
(NSTAC) Report on a Cyber
Moonshot

Highlights the need to unify efforts across
the government and create new executive bodies to oversee cybersecurity
initiatives.

Creates a strategic logic (i.e., ends, ways,
means) that prioritizes and coordinates
policy recommendations addressing challenges highlighted in the NSTAC report.

2017 National Defense
Strategy and National
Security Strategy

Emphasizes great power competition.

Describes how to secure U.S. networks
during great power competition.

2017 Defense Science
Board Task Force on Cyber
Deterrence

Prioritizes ensuring the resilience of
key weapon systems as part of a larger
deterrent strategy.

Integrates multiple deterrent layers
combining different instruments of
power—including non-military means—
and describes how to mobilize the larger
society to reduce attack surfaces (i.e.,
deny benefits).

2016 Commission on
Enhancing National
Cybersecurity

Calls for incentivizing behaviors in the
private sector that increase overall
cybersecurity.

Describes how to increase collaboration
between the public and private sectors.

2015 DoD Cyber Strategy

Advocates creating international partnerships and “building bridges to the private
sector” as key components of generating
options to defend American interests in
cyberspace.

Integrates a broad range of deterrent
and compellent options (i.e., three layers)
and describes how to increase national
resilience and reshape the cyber ecosystem through private-sector collaboration.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

145

APPENDIX G

ENGAGEMENTS
ACADEMIA
American University
School of International
Service
Auburn University
McCrary Institute
Ben Gurion University
Columbia University
Columbia Law School
School of International and
Public Affairs (SIPA)
George Mason University
Antonin Scalia Law School,
National Security Law &
Policy Program
George Washington University
Georgetown University
Edmund A. Walsh School of
Foreign Service
Georgia Institute of Technology
Harvard University
Belfer Center
Harvard Kennedy School
Johns Hopkins University
School of Advanced
International Studies
King’s College London (KCL)
London School of Economics and
Political Science
Massachusetts Institute of
Technology
Computer Science & Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory
Lincoln Laboratory

146

Internet Policy Research
Initiative
Purdue University
Stanford University
Center for Security Studies

Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory
National Cyber Investigative Joint
Task Force
National Defense Cyber Alliance

Tel Aviv University

National Security Agency

University of California, Berkeley
Center for Long Term
Cybersecurity

Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
Cyber Threat Intelligence and
Integration Center
Office of National Intelligence
Manager for Cyber

University of California, San Diego
University of Cincinnati
University of Michigan
University of Oxford
University of Texas at Austin
The University of Texas
School of Law
University of Toronto
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University

U.S. GOVERNMENT
Central Intelligence Agency
City and County of San Francisco
City of Austin, Texas
City of New York, Cyber
Command
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Executive Office of the President
National Security Council
Office of the U.S. Trade
Representative
Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI)
New York Field Office

State of Colorado
Colorado National Guard
Department of Public Safety
State of Tennessee
Bureau of Investigation
State of Texas
Department of Information
Resources
Texas National Guard
State of Washington
Washington National Guard
U.S. Department of Commerce
National Institute of
Standards and Technology
National Telecommunications
and Information
Administration
U.S. Department of Defense
Army Cyber Command
Army Futures Command
Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency
Defense Innovation Unit
Defense Science Board

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX G: ENGAGEMENTS

Fleet Cyber Command
U.S. Cyber Command
United States Naval War
College
U.S. Department of Energy
U.S. Department of Homeland
Security
Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency
Federal Emergency
Management Agency
U.S. Secret Service
U.S. Department of Justice
U.S. Department of State
U.S. Department of the Treasury

INTERNATIONAL
GOVERNMENT
Embassy of the Czech Republic
Embassy of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands
Embassy of Ukraine
Embassy of the United Kingdom
European Commission,
Directorate-General for
Migration and Home Affairs

Foreign and Commonwealth
Office
Ministry of Defense
National Cyber Security
Centre
National Security Directorate
Parliament, House of
Commons, Foreign Affairs
Committee

Automotive Information Sharing
and Analysis Center
(Auto-ISAC)
Bank of America
Bayshore Networks
Beazley PLC
Bloomberg
BluVector

North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO)

Brendler Consulting

NATO Cooperative Cyber
Defense Center of Excellence
(CCDCOE)

BSA | The Software Alliance

Republic of Estonia
Information System Authority
(RIA)
Ministry of Defense
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Communications (MKM)
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Government Office

CORPORATE AND
NONGOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATION (NGO)

Business Roundtable
Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace
Cato Institute
Center for a New American
Security (CNAS)
Center for Internet Security
Center for Strategic and
International Studies (CSIS)
Centrify
CenturyLink
Chatham House
Claroty

Adaptive Strategies, LLC

Comcast

AECOM
American Gas Association

Consumer Technology
Association

American Petroleum Institute

Council on Foreign Relations

European Union, European
External Action Service
(EEAS)

American Public Power
Association

Coveware

The Aspen Institute

Cyber Tech Accord

Government of Israel, National
Cyber Directorate

Association of State Criminal
Investigative Agencies
(ASCIA)

Cyber Threat Alliance

European Union Institute for
Security Studies (EUISS)
EU Cyber Direct

Government of the United
Kingdom
Cabinet Office
Department for Digital,
Culture, Media & Sport

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

Atlantic Council
Auto Alliance (Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers)

CrowdStrike

CyberCube
Cybereason
CyberPeace Institute
Cytegic
Defending Digital Campaigns

147

APPENDIX G: ENGAGEMENTS

DIGITALEUROPE

IOActive

R Street Institute

DiploFoundation

Jigsaw

DLL Group

JPMorgan Chase

DLT Solutions

Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers

RAND Corporation
Pardee RAND Graduate
School

Downstream Natural Gas
Information Sharing and
Analysis Center

Liberty Ventures

Dragos
EastWest Institute
Expanse

Luta Security
M&T Bank
MassMutual
MassCyberCenter

Expel

Mazda North American
Operations

Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network

Micro Focus

Financial Services Information
Sharing and Analysis Center
(FS-ISAC)

The MITRE Corporation
Center for National Security

Financial Systemic Analysis &
Resilience Center (FS-ARC)
ForeScout Technologies
ForgePoint Capital
German Marshall Fund of the
United States

Microsoft

Morgan Stanley
National Association of Insurance
Commissioners
National Association of
Secretaries of State

Rapid7
Royal United Services Institute for
Defence and Security Studies
(RUSI)
Scythe
SIGA OT Solutions
Software & Information Industry
Association
Sovereign Ventures
Splunk
Square
Team8
techUK
Third Way
Threat Warrior
Trail of Bits

National Association of State
Chief Information Officers

TruSTAR

National Association of State
Election Directors

Verified Voting

Gula Tech Adventures
The Hague Centre for Strategic
Studies

National Governors Association

Water Information Sharing and
Analysis Center

Grimm (SMFS, Inc.)

U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Vidder, Inc.

Hathaway Global Strategies LLC

National Rural Electric
Cooperative Association

Health Information Sharing and
Analysis Center

New America

West Wing Advisory Services

Next Peak LLC

White & Case LLP

Hogan Lovells

Nippon Telegraph and Telephone
Corporation

Wickr

HSBC

Palantir

The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation

I Am the Cavalry

Palo Alto Networks

The Wilson Center

Information Technology Industry
Council

Pavisade

Institute for Critical Infrastructure
Technology

Proofpoint

Hewlett Packard

148

Wells Fargo

PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC)

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX H

COMMISSIONERS

CO-CHAIRMEN
Angus S. King Jr.
U.S. Senator for Maine

Michael “Mike” J. Gallagher
U.S. Representative for
Wisconsin’s 8th District

COMMISSIONERS
Frank J. Cilluffo
Director of Auburn University’s
Charles D. McCrary Institute for
Cyber and Critical Infrastructure
Security

Andrew Hallman
Principal Executive of the Office
of the Director of National
Intelligence performing the duties
of the Principal Deputy Director of
National Intelligence

Thomas A. “Tom” Fanning
Chairman, President, and Chief
Executive Officer of Southern
Company

John C. “Chris” Inglis
U.S. Naval Academy Looker
Professor for Cyber Security
Studies and Former Deputy
Director of the National Security
Agency

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

149

APPENDIX H: COMMISSIONERS

James R. “Jim” Langevin
U.S. Representative for Rhode
Island’s 2nd District

Samantha F. Ravich
Chair of the Center on Cyber
and Technology Innovation at
the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies

Patrick J. Murphy
Former Acting Secretary and
Under Secretary of the U.S. Army
& Former U.S. Representative for
Pennsylvania’s 8th District

Benjamin E. “Ben” Sasse
U.S. Senator for Nebraska

David L. Norquist
Deputy Secretary of Defense

Suzanne E. Spaulding
Senior Adviser for Homeland
Security at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies and
former Under Secretary for the
National Protection and Programs
Directorate at the Department of
Homeland Security

David Pekoske
Administrator of the
Transportation Security
Administration & Senior Official
Performing the Duties of the
Deputy Secretary of Homeland
Security

Christopher Wray
Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation

The executive branch Commissioners contributed superb assessments,
insights, and recommendations to the report and actively participated
in the Commission’s deliberations, but, in accordance with executive
branch legal guidance, abstained from its final approval.

150

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX I

STAFF LIST
Executive Team Mark Montgomery, Executive Director
Deborah Grays, Chief of Staff
Senior Leadership Erica Borghard, Senior Director and Task Force One Lead
John Costello, Senior Director and Task Force Two Lead
Val Cofield, Senior Director and Task Force Three Lead
Cory Simpson, Senior Director and Directorate Four Lead
Benjamin Jensen, Senior Research Director and Lead Writer
Full-Time Staff Laura Bate, Director for Cyber Engagement
Phoebe Benich, Cyber Strategy and Policy Analyst
Tatyana Bolton, Policy Director
Gregory Buck, Deputy Chief of Staff
Madison Creery, Cyber Strategy and Policy Analyst
Matthew Ferren, Cyber Strategy and Policy Analyst
Chris Forshey, Facility Security Officer
Michael Garcia, Director of External Engagement and Outreach
Charles Garzoni, Director for Defensive Strategy
Karrie Jefferson, Director for Cyber Engagement
Ainsley Katz, Cyber Strategy and Policy Analyst
Alison King, Strategic Communications and Congressional Advisor
Timothy Kocher, Cyber Strategist
Noah Komnick, Cyber Strategist
Harry Krejsa, Director and Deputy Team Lead
Sang Lee, Director for Cyber Engagement
Robert Morgus, Director for Research and Analysis
Diane Pinto, Cyber Strategy and Policy Analyst
Matthew Smith, Cyber Strategist
Brandon Valeriano, Senior Advisor
Dave Zikusoka, Policy Director

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

151

APPENDIX I: STAFF LIST

Legal Advisors Stefan Wolfe, General Counsel
Corey Bradley, Deputy General Counsel
Cody Cheek, Legal Advisor
David Simon, Chief Counsel for Cybersecurity and National Security
Veronica Glick, Deputy Chief Counsel for Cybersecurity and National
Security
Joshua Silverstein, Deputy Chief Counsel for Cybersecurity and National
Security
Production Alice Falk, Editor
Support Laurel Prucha Moran, Graphic Designer
Senior Advisors Steven Chabinsky
(Part-Time) Frank DiGiovanni
Thomas Donahue
Michael Fischerkeller
Jason Healey
Jackie Kerr
Nina Kollars
Jon Lindsay
Shawn Lonergan
Christopher Painter
Mark Raymond
Phil Reitinger
Harvey Rishikof
Christopher Schell
Jacquelyn Schneider
Bobbie Stempfley
Evan Wolff
JD Work

152

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

APPENDIX I: STAFF LIST

Contributing Robert Bair
Experts Ronald Banks
Amy Bianchino
Aaron Brantly
Bob Butler
Bobby Chesney
Peter Dombrowski

The Commission
would like to
acknowledge the
critical support
of the following
agency and
Commissioner
Staff Members

Melissa Bunney
Eugene Burrell
Clark Cully
Brett Fetterly
Kelly Gaffney
Matthew Gorham
Michele Guido

Martha Finnemore

Amy Hess

Stephen Flynn

Steven Kelly

David Forscey

Christopher Krebs

Jane Fountain

Nick Leiserson

Kara Frederick

Trevor Logan

Heidi Gardner

Thomas McDermott

Lindsey Gorman

Charles Morrison

Neil Jenkins

Thomas Muir

Alexander Klimburg

Devi Nair

Robert Knake

David Radcliffe

Herb Lin

Kenneth Rapuano

Austin Long

Steve Smith

Ryan Maness

Samuel Spector

Zane Markel

Bryan Ware

Joseph Nye

Burke “Ed” Wilson

Jonathan Reiber

Thomas Wingfield

Josh Rovner
Benjamin Schechter
Lindsey Sheppard
Rebecca Slayton
Jessica “Zhanna” Malekos Smith
Josephine Wolff

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

153

APPENDIX J

SOLARIUM EVENT SUPPORT
Red Team Members

Keith Alexander
Dmitri Alperovitch
Ann Barron-DiCamillo
Edward Cardon
Steven Chabinsky
Richard Clarke
J. Michael Daniel
Jen Easterly
Richard Harknett
Jamil Jaffer
Catherine Lotrionte
John Mallery
Jim Miller
Lisa Monaco
John Nagengast
Christopher Painter
Greg Rattray
Laura Rosenberger
Robert “Rooster” Schmidle

154

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1

Language inspired by House Report on the Homeland Security Act of 2002, legislation passed after the attacks of September 11;
https://www.congress.gov/107/crpt/hrpt609/CRPT-107hrpt609.pdf.

2

See the documentary No Maps for These Territories, directed by Mark Neale (Vancouver, CA: Docurama, 2000).

3

The White House, “National Cyber Strategy of the United States of America” (September 2018), https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/
uploads/2018/09/National-Cyber-Strategy.pdf.

4

Benjamin Jensen, Brandon Valeriano, and Ryan Maness, “Fancy Bears and Digital Trolls: Cyber Strategy with a Russian Twist,” Journal of
Strategic Studies, no. 42 (2019): 212–34.

5

David Alexander, “Hagel, Ahead of China Trip, Urges Military Restraint in Cyberspace,” Reuters, March 28, 2014, https://www.reuters.com/
article/us-usa-defense-cybersecurity/hagel-ahead-of-china-trip-urges-military-restraint-in-cyberspace-idUSBREA2R1ZH20140328.

THE CHALLENGE
6

“Alert (TA17-181A): Petya Ransomware,” U.S. Department of Homeland Security – Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, July
1, 2017, https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/TA17-181A.

7

“Global Ransomware Attack Causes Turmoil,” BBC News, June 28, 2017, https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-40416611.

8

Polina Devitt, Jack Stubbs, and Oksana Kobzeva, “Russia’s Rosneft Says Hit by Cyber Attack, Oil Production Unaffected,” Reuters, June 27,
2017, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-russia-rosneft-cyberattack-idUSKBN19I1N9.

9

Benjamin Jensen, “The Cyber Character of Political Warfare,” Brown Journal of World Affairs 24, no. 1 (2017): 159–71.

10

On thinking of strategic competition in terms of networks, see Charles Cleveland, Benjamin Jensen, Arnel David and Susan Bryant,
Military Strategy in the 21st Century: People, Connectivity and Competition (New York: Cambria Press, 2018); Anne-Marie Slaughter,
“How to Succeed in the Networked World: A Grand Strategy for the Digital Age,” Foreign Affairs, December 2016,
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/world/2016-10-04/how-succeed-networked-world; Zeev Maoz, Networks of Nations: The Evolution,
Structure, and Impact of International Networks, 1816–2001, Structural Analysis in the Social Sciences 32 (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2010).

11

Major works that see cyber operations as a modern source of coercion and political warfare include Jensen, “The Cyber Character of
Political Warfare”; Erica D. Borghard and Shawn W. Lonergan, “The Logic of Coercion in Cyberspace,” Security Studies 26, no. 3 (2017):
452–81; Jon R. Lindsay and Erik Gartzke, “Coercion through Cyberspace: The Stability-Instability Paradox Revisited,” in Coercion: The
Power to Hurt in International Politics, ed. Kelly M. Greenhill and Peter Krause (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2016), 179–203; Erik
Gartzke and Jon R. Lindsay, “Weaving Tangled Webs: Offense, Defense, and Deception in Cyberspace,” Journal of Security Studies 24, no.
2 (2015): 316–48; Brandon Valeriano, Benjamin Jensen, and Ryan C. Maness, Cyber Strategy: The Evolving Character of Power and Coercion
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2018); Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” International Security 42, no. 3
(2017): 44–71, https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00266.

12

Lindsay and Gartzke, “Coercion through Cyberspace.”

13

Wayne M. Morrison, “The Made in China 2025 Initiative: Economic Implications for the United States” (Congressional Research Service,
April 12, 2019), https://fas.org/sgp/crs/row/IF10964.pdf.

14

The White House, “National Cyber Strategy of the United States of America” (September 2018), https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/
uploads/2018/09/National-Cyber-Strategy.pdf.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

155

NOTES

15

Lisa Ferdinando, “DoD Officials: Chinese Actions Threaten U.S. Technological, Industrial Base,” U.S.
Department of Defense, June 21, 2018, https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/News/Article/Article/1557188/
dod-officials-chinese-actions-threaten-us-technological-industrial-base/.

16

Daniel R. Coats, “Statement for the Record: Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community” (Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, January 29, 2019), https://www.odni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/2019-ATA-SFR---SSCI.pdf.

17

For an overview of cyber operations attributed to China along these lines, see Citizen Lab reporting: https://citizenlab.ca/tag/china/.

18

Justin Sherman and Robert Morgus, “Authoritarians Are Exporting Surveillance Tech, and with It Their Vision for the Internet,” Council on
Foreign Relations, December 5, 2018, https://www.cfr.org/blog/authoritarians-are-exporting-surveillance-tech-and-it-their-vision-internet.

19

Brian Barrett, “How China’s Elite APT10 Hackers Stole the World’s Secrets,” Wired, December 20, 2018, https://www.wired.com/story/
doj-indictment-chinese-hackers-apt10/.

20

Plea Agreement, United States v. Su Bin, No. SA CR 14-131 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 22, 2016), https://www.justice.gov/opa/file/834936/
download.

21

John Aglionby, Emily Feng, and Yuan Yang, “African Union Accuses China of Hacking Headquarters,” Financial Times, January 29, 2018,
https://www.ft.com/content/c26a9214-04f2-11e8-9650-9c0ad2d7c5b5.

22

Mark Clayton, “Exclusive: Cyberattack Leaves Natural Gas Pipelines Vulnerable to Sabotage,” Christian Science Monitor, February 27, 2013,
https://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2013/0227/Exclusive-Cyberattack-leaves-natural-gas-pipelines-vulnerable-to-sabotage.

23

The IP Commission Report: The Report of the Commission on the Theft of American Intellectual Property (National Bureau of Asian Research,
May 2013), http://www.ipcommission.org/report/ip_commission_report_052213.pdf.

24

Rob Barry and Dustin Volz, “Ghosts in the Clouds: Inside China’s Major Corporate Hack,” Wall Street Journal, December 30, 2019,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/ghosts-in-the-clouds-inside-chinas-major-corporate-hack-11577729061?mod=searchresults&page=1&pos=2.

25

Ben Sasse, “Senator Sasse: The OPM Hack May Have Given China a Spy Recruiting Database,” Wired, July 9, 2015,
https://www.wired.com/2015/07/senator-sasse-washington-still-isnt-taking-opm-breach-seriously/.

26

“Attorney General William P. Barr Announces Indictment of Four Members of China’s Military for Hacking into Equifax,” U.S.
Department of Justice, February 10, 2020, https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-william-p-barr-announcesindictment-four-members-china-s-military.

27

“The Marriott Data Breach,” Consumer Information, December 4, 2018, https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/blog/2018/12/marriott-data-breach.

28

Zach Whittaker, “Sources Say China Used iPhone Hacks to Target Uyghur Muslims,” Tech Crunch, August 31, 2019,
https://techcrunch.com/2019/08/31/china-google-iphone-uyghur/.

29

Daniel R. Coats, “Statement for the Record: Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community” (Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, January 29, 2019), 5, 7, https://www.odni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/2019-ATA-SFR---SSCI.pdf.

30

Keir Giles, “Russia’s ‘New’ Tools for Confronting the West: Continuity and Innovation in Moscow’s Exercise of Power” (Chatham House,
March 2016), https://www.chathamhouse.org/sites/default/files/publications/2016-03-russia-new-tools-giles.pdf.

31

Kenneth Geers, Cyber War in Perspective: Russian Aggression against Ukraine (CCDCOE, NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Centre of
Excellence, 2015), https://ccdcoe.org/uploads/2018/10/CyberWarinPerspective_full_book.pdf; Benjamin Jensen, Brandon Valeriano, and
Ryan Maness, “Fancy Bears and Digital Trolls: Cyber Strategy with a Russian Twist,” Journal of Strategic Studies 42, no. 2 (2019): 212–34;
Aaron F. Brantly, Nerea M. Cal, and Devlin P. Winkelstein, “Defending the Borderland: Ukrainian Military Experiences with IO, Cyber,
and EW” (Army Cyber Institute at West Point, 2017), https://cyberdefensereview.army.mil/Portals/6/Documents/UA%20Report%
20Final%20AB.pdf.

32

Coats, “Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community” (2019), 5–6.

33

Garrett M. Graff, “A Guide to Russia’s High Tech Tool Box for Subverting US Democracy,” Wired, August 13, 2017,
https://www.wired.com/story/a-guide-to-russias-high-tech-tool-box-for-subverting-us-democracy/.

156

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

34

Emily Tamkin, “10 Years After the Landmark Attack on Estonia, Is the World Better Prepared for Cyber Threats?,” Foreign Policy, April 27,
2017, https://foreignpolicy.com/2017/04/27/10-years-after-the-landmark-attack-on-estonia-is-the-world-better-prepared-for-cyber-threats/.

35

John Markoff, “Before the Gunfire, Cyberattacks,” New York Times, August 12, 2008, https://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/13/technology/
13cyber.html.

36

Robert M. Lee, Michael J. Assante, and Tim Conway, “Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid” (Electricity Information
Sharing and Assistance Center (E-ISAC), March 18, 2016), https://www.nerc.com/pa/CI/ESISAC/Documents/E-ISAC_SANS_Ukraine_
DUC_18Mar2016.pdf.

37

Ellen Nakashima and Shane Harris, “How the Russians Hacked the DNC and Passed Its Emails to WikiLeaks,” Washington Post,
July 13, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/how-the-russians-hacked-the-dnc-and-passed-its-emails-towikileaks/2018/07/13/af19a828-86c3-11e8-8553-a3ce89036c78_story.html.

38

Ellen Nakashima, “Russian Military Was behind ‘NotPetya’ Cyberattack in Ukraine, CIA Concludes,” Washington Post, January 12, 2018,
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-military-was-behind-notpetya-cyberattack-in-ukraine-ciaconcludes/2018/01/12/048d8506-f7ca-11e7-b34a-b85626af34ef_story.html.

39

Michael Riley, Jennifer A. Dlouhy, and Bryan Gruley, “Russians Are Suspects in Nuclear Site Hackings, Sources Say,” Bloomberg, July 6,
2017, https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-07-07/russians-are-said-to-be-suspects-in-hacks-involving-nuclear-site.

40

Rebecca Smith, “Russian Hackers Reach U.S. Utility Control Rooms, Homeland Security Officials Say,” Wall Street Journal, July 23, 2018,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-hackers-reach-u-s-utility-control-rooms-homeland-security-officials-say-1532388110.

41

On Russian efforts to manipulate the 2018 election, see Donie O’Sullivan, “Russians Targeted Senate and Conservative Think Tanks,
Microsoft Says,” CNN, August 22, 2018, https://www.cnn.com/2018/08/21/politics/microsoft-russia-american-politicians/index.html.

42

Eugene Rumer, “The Primakov (Not Gerasimov) Doctrine in Action,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, June 5, 2019,
https://carnegieendowment.org/2019/06/05/primakov-not-gerasimov-doctrine-in-action-pub-79254.

43

Foreign Cyber Threats to the United States: Hearing before the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services, 115th Cong., 1st sess., 2017,
https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/hearings/17-01-05-foreign-cyber-threats-to-the-united-states.

44

“Nine Iranians Charged with Conducting Massive Cyber Theft Campaign on Behalf of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps,” U.S.
Department of Justice, March 23, 2018, https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/nine-iranians-charged-conducting-massive-cyber-theftcampaign-behalf-islamic; Eamon Javers, “US Charges Iranians with Cyber Attacks on Banks and Dam,” CNBC, March 24, 2016,
https://www.cnbc.com/2016/03/24/us-charges-iranians-with-cyber-attacks-on-banks-and-dam.html.

45

John Leyden, “Hack on Saudi Aramco Hit 30,000 Workstations, Oil Firm Admits,” The Register, August 29, 2012,
https://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/08/29/saudi_aramco_malware_attack_analysis/.

46

U.S. Department of Justice, “Nine Iranians Charged with Conducting Massive Cyber Theft Campaign.”

47

Ben Elgin and Michael Riley, “Now at the Sands Casino: An Iranian Hacker in Every Server,” Bloomberg, December 12, 2014,
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-12-11/iranian-hackers-hit-sheldon-adelsons-sands-casino-in-las-vegas.

48

Ms. Smith, “Saudi Arabia Again Hit with Disk-Wiping Malware Shamoon 2,” CSO, January 24, 2017,
https://www.csoonline.com/article/3161146/saudi-arabia-again-hit-with-disk-wiping-malware-shamoon-2.html.

49

Zaid Shoorbajee, “Shamoon Resurfaces, Targeting Italian Oil Company,” CyberScoop, December 14, 2018,
https://www.cyberscoop.com/shamoon-saipem-palo-alto-networks/.

50

Sarah Hawley, Ben Read, Cristiana Brafman-Kittner, Nalani Fraser, Andrew Thompson, Yuri Rozhansky and Sanaz Yashar, “APT39: An
Iranian Cyber Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information,” FireEye, January 29, 2019, https://www.fireeye.com/blog/
threat-research/2019/01/apt39-iranian-cyber-espionage-group-focused-on-personal-information.html.

51

Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai, “The Iranian Hacking Campaign to Break into Activists’ Gmail Accounts,” Vice, August 27, 2015,
https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/qkvyyx/inside-the-iranian-hackers-campaign-to-break-into-activists-gmail-accounts.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

157

NOTES

52

Lily Hay Newman, “Facebook Removes a Fresh Batch of Iran-Linked Fake Accounts,” Wired, May 28, 2019, https://www.wired.com/story/
iran-linked-fake-accounts-facebook-twitter/.

53

Jay Greene, Tony Romm, and Ellen Nakashima, “Iranians Tried to Hack U.S. Presidential Campaign in Effort That Targeted
Hundreds, Microsoft Says,” Washington Post, October 4, 2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/10/04/
iran-tried-hack-us-presidential-candidates-journalists-effort-that-targeted-hundreds-microsoft-finds/.

54

Nalani Fraser, Jacqueline O’Leary, Vincent Cannon and Fred Plan, “APT38: Details on New North Korean Regime-Backed Threat Group,”
FireEye, October 3, 2018, https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2018/10/apt38-details-on-new-north-korean-regime-backedthreat-group.html; Jay Rosenberg and Christiaan Beek, “Examining Code Reuse Reveals Undiscovered Links Among North Korea’s
Malware Families,” McAfee, August 9, 2018, https://securingtomorrow.mcafee.com/other-blogs/mcafee-labs/examining-code-reuse-revealsundiscovered-links-among-north-koreas-malware-families/; Ryan Sherstobitoff and Asheer Malhotra, “Analyzing Operation GhostSecret,”
McAfee, April 24, 2018, https://securingtomorrow.mcafee.com/other-blogs/mcafee-labs/analyzing-operation-ghostsecretattack-seeks-to-steal-data-worldwide/; Sergei Shevchenko, Hirman Muhammad bin Abu Bakar, and James Wong, “Taiwan Heist: Lazarus
Tools and Ransomware,” BAE Systems, October 16, 2017, https://baesystemsai.blogspot.com/2017/10/taiwan-heist-lazarus-tools.html.

55

Choe Sang-Hun, “North Korean Hackers Stole U.S.-South Korean Military Plans, Lawmaker Says,” New York Times, October 10, 2017,
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/world/asia/north-korea-hack-war-plans.html; Hyeong-wook Boo, “An Assessment of North Korean
Cyber Threats,” Journal of East Asian Affairs 31, no. 1 (2017): 97–117; Kong Ji Young, Lim Jong In, and Kim Kyoung Gon, “The AllPurpose Sword: North Korea’s Cyber Operations and Strategies,” in 2019 11th International Conference on Cyber Conflict: Silent Battle,
CyCon 2019, ed. Massimiliano Signoretti et al. (Tallinn: NATO CCD COE Publications, 2019), 1–20.

56

Ian Talley and Dustin Volz, “U.S. Targets Korean Hacking as Rising National-Security Threat,” Wall Street Journal, September 16, 2019,
https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-targets-north-korean-hacking-as-rising-national-security-threat-11568545202; Carol Morella and Ellen
Nakashima, “U.S. Imposes Sanctions on North Korean Hackers Accused in Sony Attack, Dozens of Other Incidents,” Washington Post,
September 13, 2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/us-sanctions-north-korean-hackers-accused-in-sony-attackdozens-of-other-incidents/2019/09/13/ac6b0070-d633-11e9-9610-fb56c5522e1c_story.html.

57

David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth, “U.S. Said to Find North Korea Ordered Cyberattack on Sony,” New York Times, December 17, 2014,
https://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/18/world/asia/us-links-north-korea-to-sony-hacking.html.

58

Ju-min Park and Meeyoung Cho, “South Korea Blames North Korea for December Hack on Nuclear Operator,” Reuters, March 17, 2015,
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-nuclear-southkorea-northkorea/south-korea-blames-north-korea-for-december-hack-onnuclear-operator-idUSKBN0MD0GR20150317

59

Krishna N. Das and Jonathan Spicer, “How the New York Fed Fumbled over the Bangladesh Bank Cyber-Heist,” Reuters, July 21, 2016,
https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/cyber-heist-federal/.

60

Ellen Nakashima and Phillip Rucker, “U.S. Declares North Korea Carried Out Massive WannaCry Cyberattack,” Washington Post,
December 19, 2017, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-set-to-declare-north-korea-carried-out-massivewannacry-cyber-attack/2017/12/18/509deb1c-e446-11e7-a65d-1ac0fd7f097e_story.html.

61

Michelle Nichols, “North Korea Took $2 Billion in Cyberattacks to Fund Weapons Program:
U.N. Report,” Reuters, August 5, 2019, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-cyber-un/
north-korea-took-2-billion-in-cyberattacks-to-fund-weapons-program-u-n-report-idUSKCN1UV1ZX.

62

Darien Huss, “North Korea Bitten by Bitcoin Bug,” Proofpoint, December 2017, https://www.proofpoint.com/sites/default/files/pfpt-uswp-north-korea-bitten-by-bitcoin-bug-180129.pdf; Luke McNamara, “Why Is North Korea So Interested in Bitcoin?,” FireEye, September
2017, https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/09/north-korea-interested-in-bitcoin.html.

63

Michelle Nichols, “North Korea Took $2 Billion in Cyberattacks to Fund Weapons Program: U.S. Report,” Reuters, August 5, 2019,
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-cyber-un/north-korea-took-2-billion-in-cyberattacks-to-fund-weaponsprogram-u-n-report-idUSKCN1UV1ZX.

64

Manny Fernandez, David E. Sanger, and Marina Trahan Martinez, “Ransomware Attacks Are Testing Resolve of Cities across America,”
New York Times, August 22, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/us/ransomware-attacks-hacking.html.

158

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

65

“ISIL Now ‘A Covert Global Network’ Despite Significant Losses, United Nations Counter-Terrorism Head Tells Security Council,” United
Nations Meetings Coverage, August 2018, https://www.un.org/press/en/2018/sc13463.doc.htm; Coats, “Worldwide Threat Assessment of the
US Intelligence Community” (2019).

66

Christopher Bing and Joel Schectman, “Special Report: Inside the UAE’s Secret Hacking Team of U.S. Mercenaries,” Reuters, January 30,
2019, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-spying-raven-specialreport/special-report-inside-the-uaes-secret-hacking-team-of-u-s-mercenaries-idUSKCN1PO19O; Jon Gambrell, “UAE Cyber Firm DarkMatter Slowly Steps out of the Shadows,” Bloomberg, February 1, 2018,
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-02-01/uae-cyber-firm-darkmatter-slowly-steps-out-of-the-shadows.

67

Ibid; Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai, “Controversial Government Spyware Crops Up in 21 Countries, Report Says,” Mashable,
February 18, 2014, https://mashable.com/2014/02/18/controversial-government-spyware-hacking-team/#3Z120eTa8Eqj;
Bill Marczak, John Scott-Railton, Sarah McKune, Bahr Abdul Razzak, and Ron Deibert, “Hide and Seek: Tracking NSO
Group’s Pegasus Spyware to Operations in 45 Countries,” The Citizen Lab, September 18, 2018, https://citizenlab.ca/2018/09/
hide-and-seek-tracking-nso-groups-pegasus-spyware-to-operations-in-45-countries/.

68

“Treasury Sanctions Evil Corp, the Russia-Based Cybercriminal Group behind Dridex Malware,” U.S. Department of the Treasury,
December 5, 2019, https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm845.

69

“GameOver Zeus Botnet Disrupted: Collaborative Effort among International Partners,” U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, June 2,
2014, https://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/gameover-zeus-botnet-disrupted.

70

“U.S. Leads Multi-National Action against ‘Gameover Zeus’ Botnet and ‘Cryptolocker’ Ransomware, Charges Botnet Administrator,”
U.S. Department of Justice, June 2, 2014, https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-leads-multi-national-action-against-gameover-zeus-botnetand-cryptolocker-ransomware.

71

“JPMorgan Hack Exposed Data of 83 Million, among Biggest Breaches in History,” Reuters, October 2, 2014,
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-jpmorgan-cybersecurity/jpmorgan-hack-exposed-data-of-83-million-among-biggest-breaches-inhistory-idUSKCN0HR23T20141003.

72

Joseph Marks, “ISIL Aims to Launch Cyberattacks on U.S.,” Politico, December 29, 2015, https://www.politico.com/story/2015/12/
isil-terrorism-cyber-attacks-217179.

73

“GozNym Cyber-Criminal Network Operating out of Europe Targeting American Entities Dismantled in International Operation,” U.S.
Department of Justice, May 16, 2019, https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/goznym-cyber-criminal-network-operating-out-europetargeting-american-entities-dismantled.

74

“DDoS Attack That Disrupted Internet Was Largest of Its Kind in History, Experts Say,” The Guardian, October 26, 2016,
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/oct/26/ddos-attack-dyn-mirai-botnet.

75

Lily Hay Newman, “Atlanta Spent $2.6M to Recover from a $52,000 Ransomware Scare,” Wired Magazine, April 23, 2018,
https://www.wired.com/story/atlanta-spent-26m-recover-from-ransomware-scare/.

76

Manny Fernandez, Mihir Zaveri, and Emily S. Rueb, “Ransomware Attack Hits 22 Texas Towns, Authorities Say,” New York Times, August
2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/20/us/texas-ransomware.html; Luke Broadwater, “Baltimore Transfers $6 Million to Pay for
Ransomware Attack; City Considers Insurance against Hacks,” Baltimore Sun, August 2019, https://www.baltimoresun.com/politics/
bs-md-ci-ransomware-expenses-20190828-njgznd7dsfaxbbaglnvnbkgjhe-story.html.

77

Keman Huang, Michael Siegel, and Stuart Madnick, “Cybercrime-as-a-Service: Identifying Control Points to Disrupt” (MIT Management
Sloan School, November 2017), https://cams.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017-17.pdf; Robert Wainwright and Frank Cilluffo,
“Responding to Cybercrime at Scale: Operation Avalanche—A Case Study” (Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, March 2017),
http://www.iaem.com/documents/Responding-to-Cybercrime-at-Scale-Mar2017.pdf.

78

Omar Abbosh and Kelly Bissell, “Securing the Digital Economy: Reinventing the Internet for Trust” (Accenture, 2019), 16,
https://www.accenture.com/us-en/insights/cybersecurity/_acnmedia/Thought-Leadership-Assets/PDF/Accenture-Securing-the-DigitalEconomy-Reinventing-the-Internet-for-Trust.pdf.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

159

NOTES

79

“Cybercrime Tactics and Techniques: Ransomware Retrospective” (Malwarebytes, August 2019), https://resources.malwarebytes.com/
files/2019/08/CTNT-2019-Ransomware_August_FINAL.pdf.

80

“High-Impact Ransomware Attacks Threaten U.S. Businesses and Organizations,” U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, October 2, 2019,
https://www.ic3.gov/media/2019/191002.aspx.

81

Fernandez, Sanger, and Trahan Martinez, “Ransomware Attacks Are Testing Resolve of Cities across America.”

82

For analyses of the balance of public and private innovation ecosystems, see Maryann P. Feldman and Richard Florida, “The Geographic
Sources of Innovation: Technological Infrastructure and Product Innovation in the United States,” Annals of the Association of American
Geographers 84, no. 2 (June 1994): 210–29; Richard R. Nelson, ed., National Innovation Systems: A Comparative Analysis (New York: Oxford
University Press, 1993).

83

“Cybersecurity Supply/Demand Heat Map,” CyberSeek, Burning Glass, CompTIA, and the National Initiative for Cybersecurity
Education, accessed February 18, 2020, https://www.cyberseek.org/heatmap.html.

84

“Hacking the Skills Shortage: A Study of the International Shortage in Cybersecurity Skills” (McAfee and Center for International and
Strategic Studies, July 2016), https://www.mcafee.com/enterprise/en-us/assets/reports/rp-hacking-skills-shortage.pdf.

85

Lauren C. Williams, “Shanahan: ‘We Get Out-Recruited’ for Cyber Talent,” FCW, May 8, 2019, https://fcw.com/articles/2019/05/08/
shanahan-cyber-talent-sasc.aspx.

86

Dustin Fraze, “Cyber Grand Challenge (CGC) (Archived),” Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, https://www.darpa.mil/program/
cyber-grand-challenge.

87

Paul Mozur, “Beijing Wants A.I. to Be Made in China by 2030,” New York Times, July 20, 2017, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/20/
business/china-artificial-intelligence.html.

88

Alina Polyakova, “Weapons of the Weak: Russia and AI-Driven Asymmetric Warfare,” The Brookings Institution, November 15, 2018,
https://www.brookings.edu/research/weapons-of-the-weak-russia-and-ai-driven-asymmetric-warfare/.

89

“Clinton’s Words on China: Trade Is the Smart Thing,” New York Times, March 9, 2000, https://www.nytimes.com/2000/03/09/world/
clinton-s-words-on-china-trade-is-the-smart-thing.html.

90

Hilary McGeachy, “U.S.-China Technology Competition: Impacting a Rules-Based Order” (United States Studies Centre, May 2, 2019),
available at https://www.ussc.edu.au/analysis/us-china-technology-competition-impacting-a-rules-based-order.

91

Eurasia Group, “Eurasia Group White Paper: The Geopolitics of 5G (November 15, 2018), https://www.eurasiagroup.net/siteFiles/Media/
files/1811-14%205G%20special%20report%20public(1).pdf.

92

Dan Strumpf, “Where China Dominates in 5G Technology,” Wall Street Journal, February 26, 2019, https://www.wsj.com/articles/
where-china-dominates-in-5g-technology-11551236701.

93

McGeachy, “U.S.-China Technology Competition.”

94

Steven Fieldstein, “The Global Expansion of AI Surveillance” (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, September 17, 2019), available
at https://carnegieendowment.org/2019/09/17/global-expansion-of-ai-surveillance-pub-79847; “Vietnam: Withdraw Problematic Cyber
Security Law,” Human Rights Watch, June 7, 2018, https://www.hrw.org/news/2018/06/07/vietnam-withdraw-problematic-cybersecurity-law; “Vietnam: Big Brother Is Watching Everyone,” Human Rights Watch, December 20, 2018,
https://www.hrw.org/news/2018/12/20/vietnam-big-brother-watching-everyone; Abdi Latif Dahir, “China Is Exporting Its
Digital Surveillance Methods to African Governments,” Quartz Africa, November 1, 2018, https://qz.com/africa/1447015/
china-is-helping-african-countries-control-the-internet/.

95

Isolated attempts to reverse this dynamic and reinvigorate the government’s technological capabilities include the Strategic Capabilities
Office (SCO), DoD’s Defense Innovation Unit (DIU), AFWERX, SOFWERX, Army Futures Command, the U.S. Army Reserve 75th
Innovation Command, and the Defense Digital Services.

96

Shane Greenstein, How the Internet Became Commercial (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2015).

160

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

HISTORICAL LEGACY AND METHODOLOGY
97

William B. Pickett, ed., George F. Kennan and the Origins of Eisenhower’s New Look: An Oral History of Project Solarium, Monograph Series 1
(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004).

98

Michèle A. Flournoy and Shawn W. Brimley, “Strategic Planning for National Security: A New Project Solarium,” Joint Forces Quarterly 41,
no. 2 (2006): 80–86, https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/6252/45e247df30b3ba835021c6b1271c9653f1c5.pdf.

99

Raymond Millen, “Eisenhower and US Grand Strategy,” Parameters 44, no. 2 (Summer 2014): 35–47, https://publications.armywarcollege.
edu/pubs/3715.pdf; Robert H. Bowie and Richard H. Immerman, Waging Peace: How Eisenhower Shaped an Enduring Cold War Strategy
(New York: Oxford University Press, 1998).

100 John Lewis Gaddis, Strategies of Containment: A Critical Appraisal of American National Security Policy during the Cold War (New York:
Oxford University Press, 2005); Steven Metz, “Eisenhower and the Planning of American Grand Strategy,” Journal of Strategic Studies 14,
no. 1 (March 1991): 49–71, https://doi.org/10.1080/01402399108437439.
101 “Paul Baran and the Origins of the Internet,” RAND Corporation, accessed November 6, 2019, https://www.rand.org/about/history/
baran.html.
102 Charles Cleveland et al., Military Strategy in the 21st Century: People, Connectivity and Competition (New York: Cambria Press, 2018).
103 Paul Baran, On Distributed Communications (Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 1964), available at https://www.rand.org/pubs/
research_memoranda/RM3767.html; Willis H. Ware, Security Controls for Computer Systems: Report of Defense Science Board Task Force
on Computer Security (1970; reprint, Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 1979), available at https://www.rand.org/pubs/reports/
R609-1.html.
104 Ware, Security Controls for Computer Systems, vi.
105 Fred Kaplan, “WarGames and Cybersecurity’s Debt to a Hollywood Hack,” New York Times, February 19, 2016,
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/21/movies/wargames-and-cybersecuritys-debt-to-a-hollywood-hack.html.
106 “Films Viewed by President and Mrs. Reagan,” Ronald Reagan Presidential Library & Museum, https://www.reaganlibrary.gov/sreference/
films-viewed-by-president-and-mrs-reagan.
107 National Security Decision Directive Number 145, “National Policy on Telecommunications and Automated Information Systems
Security” (The White House, September 17, 1984), https://www.reaganlibrary.gov/sites/default/files/archives/reference/scanned-nsdds/
nsdd145.pdf.
108 Critical Foundations: Protecting America’s Infrastructures: The Report of the President’s Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection (October
1997), https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=986.
109 “U.S. Cyber Command History,” United States Cyber Command, accessed November 6, 2019, https://www.cybercom.mil/About/History/;
“About CISA,” Cyber Security and Infrastructure Agency, https://www.cisa.gov/about-cisa.
110 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, 18 U.S. Code § 1030 (1986); Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, 15 U.S. Code § 6801 (1999);
Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-347 (2002); Cybersecurity and Information Sharing Act of 2015,
Pub L. No. 114-113 (2015).
111 “Cyberspace Policy Review: Assuring a Trusted and Resilient Information and Communications Infrastructure” ([The White House,
November 2009]), https://fas.org/irp/eprint/cyber-review.pdf; “The National Strategy to Secure Cyberspace” (The White House, February
2003), https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/National%20Strategy%20to%20Secure%20Cyberspace.pdf.
112 See Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” International Security 42, no. 3 (Winter 2016): 44–71,
https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00266.
113 The College of Information and Cyberspace at the National Defense University hosted the event.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

161

NOTES

114 On the concept of stress testing, see Nassim N. Taleb, Elie Canetti, Tidiane Kinda, Elena Loukoianova and Christian Schmieder, “A New
Heuristic Measure of Fragility and Tail Risks: Application to Stress Testing” (IMF Working Paper, International Monetary Fund, 2012),
https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2012/wp12216.pdf.

STRATEGIC APPROACH: LAYERED CYBER DETERRENCE
115 “Critical Infrastructure Protection, Information Sharing and Cyber Security,” U.S. Chamber of Commerce, accessed January 23, 2020,
https://www.uschamber.com/issue-brief/critical-infrastructure-protection-information-sharing-and-cyber-security.
116 Anne-Marie Slaughter, The Chessboard and the Web: Strategies of Connection in a Networked World (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2017);
Zeev Maoz, Networks of Nations: The Evolution, Structure, and Impact of International Networks, 1816–2001, Structural Analysis in the
Social Sciences 32 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010); Charles Cleveland et al., Military Strategy in the 21st Century: People,
Connectivity and Competition (New York: Cambria Press, 2018).
117 Emily Goldman and Michael Warner, “History of Persistent Engagement and Defend Forward” (Minutes of U.S. Cyberspace
Solarium Commission meeting, September 23, 2019); Michael Fischerkeller and Richard Harknett, “Persistent Engagement, Agreed
Competition, Cyberspace Interaction Dynamics, and Escalation” (Institute for Defense Analyses, May 2018), https://www.ida.org/-/
media/feature/publications/p/pe/persistent-engagement-agreed-competition-cyberspace-interaction-dynamics-and-escalation/d-9076.
ashx; Michael Fischerkeller and Richard Harknett, “What Is Agreed Competition in Cyberspace?,” Lawfare, February 19, 2019, https://
www.lawfareblog.com/what-agreed-competition-cyberspace; Michael Fischerkeller and Richard Harknett, “Persistent Engagement and
Tacit Bargaining: A Path toward Constructing Norms in Cyberspace,” Lawfare, November 9, 2018, https://www.lawfareblog.com/
persistent-engagement-and-tacit-bargaining-path-toward-constructing-norms-cyberspace.
118 Persistent engagement is how U.S. Cyber Command implements defend forward. It is based on the notion of being in “constant contact” with adversaries. It is defined by enabling partners across agencies, as well as in the private sector and international partners, and
by acting by defending forward outside of DoD networks. United States Special Operations Command and United States Cyber Command:
Hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 116th Congress, 4, 6 (February 14, 2019) (statement of General Paul M. Nakasone,
Commander United States Cyber Command); William T. Eliason, “An Interview with Paul M. Nakasone,” Joint Force Quarterly 92 (1st
Quarter 2019): 6–7.
119 Continuity of the Economy is an effort to ensure that the critical data and technology would be available, with priority for critical functions
across corporations and industry sectors, to get the economy back up and running after a catastrophic event.
120 U.S. Department of Defense, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), 1, https://media.defense.gov/2018/
Sep/18/2002041658/-1/-1/1/CYBER_STRATEGY_SUMMARY_FINAL.PDF.
121 Early cyber deterrence literature focused more on within-domain dynamics: see Robert Jervis, “Some Thoughts on Deterrence in the Cyber
Era,” Journal of Information Warfare 15, no. 2 (2016): 66–73; Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 44–71; Martin Libicki,
Cyberspace in Peace and War (Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute Press, 2016); Aaron Brantly, “The Cyber Deterrence Problem,” in CyCon X:
Maximising Effects, ed. T. Minárik, R. Jakschis, and L. Lindström, 10th International Conference on Cyber Conflict (CyCon) (Tallinn:
NATO CCD COE Publications, 2018), 31–54; and Thomas Rid, Cyber War Will Not Take Place (London: Hurst, 2013). More recent
literature focuses on coercion broadly defined and on cross-domain dynamics. For examples, see Erica Borghard and Shawn Lonergan, “The
Logic of Coercion in Cyberspace,” Security Studies 26, no. 3 (2017): 452–81; Brandon Valeriano, Benjamin Jensen, and Ryan Maness, Cyber
Strategy: The Evolving Character of Power and Coercion (New York: Oxford University Press, 2018); and Erik Gartzke and Jon R. Lindsay,
eds., Cross-Domain Deterrence: Strategy in an Era of Complexity (New York: Oxford University Press, 2019).
122 Alexander George and Richard Smoke, Deterrence in American Foreign Policy: Theory and Practice (New York: Columbia University Press,
1974).
123 Lawrence Freedman, Deterrence (Cambridge: Polity, 2004), 26.
124 Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 45. For additional definitions of deterrence, see Glenn H. Snyder, Deterrence and Defense
(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1961); Robert J. Art, “To What Ends Military Power?,” International Security 4, no. 4 (1980):
3–35, at 6; Robert Jervis, “Deterrence Theory Revisited,” World Politics 31, no. 2 (1979): 289–324; Thomas C. Schelling, The Strategy of

162

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

Conflict (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1980); Thomas C. Schelling, Arms and Influence (New Haven: Yale University Press,
1966).
125 It is important to note that the notion of deterrence by punishment existed before the nuclear age. See George H. Quester, Deterrence before
Hiroshima: The Airpower Background of Modern Strategy (1966; reprint, Piscataway, NJ: Transaction Books, 1986).
126 For an overview of these debates on the viability of cyber operations as a form of cost imposition, see Valeriano, Jensen, and Maness, Cyber
Strategy, and Borghard and Lonergan, “The Logic of Coercion.”
127 Snyder, Deterrence and Defense, 14–15. Also see Daniel Byman and Matthew Waxman, The Dynamics of Coercion: American Foreign Policy
and the Limits of Military Might (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002), and Robert Pape, Bombing to Win: Air Power and Coercion
in War (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1996).
128 John J. Mearsheimer, Conventional Deterrence (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1985).
129 Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 55.
130 Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 58.
131 But see Farrell and Newman for how economic interdependence can become weaponized and support a coercion strategy: Henry Farrell and
Abraham Newman, “Domestic Institutions beyond the Nation-State: Charting the New Interdependence Approach,” World Politics 66, no.
2 (2014): 331–63.
132 Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 60. See Tannenwald on the nuclear taboo or Price on the chemical weapons taboo: Nina
Tannenwald, The Nuclear Taboo: The United States and the Non-Use of Nuclear Weapons Since 1945 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
2007); Richard Price, The Chemical Weapons Taboo (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2018). Also refer to Tannenwald’s more recent
work on the strength of the nuclear taboo: Nina Tannenwald, “How Strong Is the Nuclear Taboo Today?,” Washington Quarterly 41, no. 3
(2018): 89–109.
133 Martin Libicki, Cyberdeterrence and Cyberwar (Santa Monica, CA: RAND, 2009), 41–42; Jon Lindsay, “Tipping the Scales: The Attribution
Problem and the Feasibility of Deterrence against Cyberattack,” Journal of Cybersecurity 1, no. 1 (2015): 53–67; Nye, “Deterrence and
Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 49–52.
134 Schelling, Arms and Influence.
135 Robert Jervis, The Logic of Images in International Relations (New York: Columbia University Press, 1970), 18.
136 Borghard and Lonergan, “The Logic of Coercion”; Valeriano, Jensen, and Maness, Cyber Strategy; Eliason, “An Interview with Paul M.
Nakasone,” 4.
137 Nye, “Deterrence and Dissuasion in Cyberspace,” 49–50.
138 Brantly, “The Cyber Deterrence Problem”; Borghard and Lonergan, “The Logic of Coercion.”
139 Libicki, Cyberdeterrence and Cyberwar, 56.
140 Jacquelyn Schneider, “Deterrence in and through Cyberspace,” in Gartzke and Lindsay, Cross-Domain Deterrence, 95–120.
141 The White House, “National Security Strategy of the United States of America” (December 2017), 2, https://www.whitehouse.gov/
wp-content/uploads/2017/12/NSS-Final-12-18-2017-0905.pdf.
142 U.S. Department of Defense, “Summary of the 2018 National Defense Strategy of the United States of America: Sharpening the American
Military’s Competitive Edge” (January 2018), https://dod.defense.gov/Portals/1/Documents/pubs/2018-National-Defense-Strategy-Summary.pdf.
143 Daniel R. Coats, “Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community” (Office of the Director of National Intelligence,
February 2018), https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/Newsroom/Testimonies/2018-ATA---Unclassified-SSCI.pdf.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

163

NOTES

144 U.S. Cyber Command, “Achieve and Maintain Cyberspace Superiority: Command Vision for US Cyber Command” (March 23, 2018),
https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu//dc.html?doc=4421219-United-States-Cyber-Command-Achieve-and-Maintain; DoD, “Summary: Department
of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018).
145 Michael N. Schmitt, “‘Virtual’ Disenfranchisement: Cyber Election Meddling in the Grey Zones of International Law,” Chicago Journal of
International Law 19 (2018): 30–67, available at https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180631.
146 While the term “gray zone” is generally associated with conflict, it also applies to the space between the “black and white” of traditional
legal frameworks, both international and domestic. See Gary P. Corn, “Cyber National Security: Navigating Gray-Zone Challenges in and
through Cyberspace,” in Complex Battlespaces: The Law of Armed Conflict and the Dynamics of Modern Warfare, ed. Winston S. Williams and
Christopher M. Ford (New York: Oxford University Press, 2018), 345–428.
147 Michael P. Fischerkeller and Richard J. Harknett, “Persistent Engagement, Agreed Competition, Cyberspace Interaction Dynamics, and
Escalation” (Institute for Defense Analyses, May 2018), https://www.ida.org/-/media/feature/publications/p/pe/persistentengagement-agreed-competition-cyberspace-interaction-dynamics-and-escalation/d-9076.ashx.
148 DoD, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), 1.
149 As defined in Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Cyberspace Operations, Joint Publication 3-12 (June 8, 2018), “The term
‘blue cyberspace’ denotes areas in cyberspace protected by the US, its mission partners, and other areas DOD may be ordered to protect,”
while “‘red cyberspace’ refers to those portions of cyberspace owned or controlled by an adversary or enemy.” Finally, “all cyberspace that
does not meet the description of either ‘blue’ or ‘red’ is referred to as ‘gray’ cyberspace” (I-4, I-5). Prior to the 2018 strategy, defending its
networks had been DoD’s primary focus; see U.S. Department of Defense, “Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (April 2015),
https://archive.defense.gov/home/features/2015/0415_cyber-strategy/final_2015_dod_cyber_strategy_for_web.pdf.
150 DoD, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), 2.
151 DoD, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), 2. Cyber Command’s “Command Vision” provides a similar explanation: “Defending forward as close as possible to the origin of adversary activity extends our reach to expose adversaries’ weaknesses, learn
their intentions and capabilities, and counter attacks close to their origins” (6).
152 John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Pub. L. No. 115-232 (hereafter FY2019 NDAA), 132 Stat. 1636
(2018). Key changes in the FY2019 NDAA include Section 1632, which defines cyber operations as “traditional military activity,” and
Section 1642, which pre-delegates authority to U.S. Cyber Command to take proportional action in response to active, systematic, and
ongoing campaigns by Russian, Chinese, Iranian, and North Korean cyberattacks, as determined by the National Command Authority, and
defines these responses as constituting traditional military activities.
153 For new authorities outlined in NSPM-13, see Hearing to Conduct a Confirmation Hearing on the Expected Nomination of: Honorable Mark
T. Esper to Be Secretary of Defense, 116th Cong. 37–38 (2019) (testimony of the Honorable Mark T. Esper),
https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/19-59_07-16-19.pdf.
154 Ellen Nakashima, “NSA and Cyber Command to Coordinate Actions to Counter Russian Election Interference in 2018 Amid Absence of
White House Guidance,” Washington Post, July 17, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-andcyber-command-to-coordinate-actions-to-counter-russian-election-interference-in-2018-amid-absence-of-white-houseguidance/2018/07/17/baac95b2-8900-11e8-85ae-511bc1146b0b_story.html.
155 Statement of General Nakasone, Hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 4.
156 Shannon Vavra, “NSA’s Russian Cyberthreat Task Force Is Now Permanent,” CyberScoop, April 2019, https://www.cyberscoop.com/
nsa-russia-small-group-cyber-command/.
157 FY2019 NDAA, § 1642.

164

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

REFORM THE U.S. GOVERNMENT’S STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION FOR CYBERSPACE
158 Frederick M. Kaiser, Legislative History of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (Washington, DC: Congressional Research Service,
August 16, 1978), 2, https://fas.org/sgp/crs/intel/ssci-leghist.pdf.
159 “Technology Assessment and Congress,” Office of Technology Assessment Archive: Provided by the Federation of American Scientists,
2018, https://ota.fas.org/technology_assessment_and_congress/. Princeton University maintains an Office of Technology Assessment
archive that captures and expands upon much of OTA’s original work. See “The OTA Legacy,” Princeton University,
https://www.princeton.edu/~ota/.
160 The Office of Science and Technology Policy had 58 staff members as of April 2019. The Office of the United States Trade Representative
has a staff of over 200 employees. In the 2017 budget, the White House requested 65 employees for the Office of National Drug Control
Policy. John F. Sargent Jr. and Dana A. Shea, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP): History and Overview, CRS Report No. R43935
(Washington, DC: Congressional Research Service, updated October 8, 2019), https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R43935.pdf; “About Us,”
Office of the United States Trade Representative, https://ustr.gov/about-us; Robert O’Harrow Jr., “Meet the 24-Year-Old Trump Campaign
Worker Appointed to Help Lead the Government’s Drug Policy Office,” Washington Post, January 14, 2018,
https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/meet-the-24-years-old-trump-campaign-worker-appointed-to-help-lead-the-governmentsdrug-policy-office/2018/01/13/abdada34-f64e-11e7-91af-31ac729add94_story.html.
161 “NTSC Supports Bipartisan Legislation to Establish the Cybersecurity Advisory Committee,” National Technology Security Coalition,
March 28, 2019, https://www.ntsc.org/about-ntsc/press-releases/ntsc-supports-bipartisan-legislation-to-establish-the-cybersecurityadvisory-committee.html.
162 “Cybersecurity Supply/Demand Heat Map,” CyberSeek, Burning Glass, CompTIA, and the National Initiative for Cybersecurity
Education, accessed February 18, 2020, https://www.cyberseek.org/heatmap.html.
163 Kevin Pelphrey, “Autistic People Can Solve Our Cybersecurity Crisis,” Wired, November 25, 2016, https://www.wired.com/2016/11/
autistic-people-can-solve-cybersecurity-crisis/.
164 Exec. Order No. 13870, “America’s Cybersecurity Workforce,” 84 Fed. Reg. 20523 (May 2, 2019), https://www.federalregister.gov/
documents/2019/05/09/2019-09750/americas-cybersecurity-workforce; Cybersecurity Skills Integration Act of 2019, H.R.1592, 116th
Cong. (2019), https://www.congress.gov/bill/116t%C3%A5h-congress/house-bill/1592.
165 “Cybersecurity Supply/Demand Heat Map.”
166 “Five Veterans Graduate from Cybersecurity Apprenticeship; 10 Vets to Join Program,” North Carolina Department of Information
Technology, November 15, 2018, https://it.nc.gov/blog/2018/11/15/five-veterans-graduate-cybersecurity-apprenticeship-10-vets-join-program.
167 “11 Federal Agencies Help Start Cybersecurity Talent Initiative,” FedScoop, April 9, 2019, https://www.fedscoop.com/
federal-cybersecurity-talent-initiative/.

STRENGTHEN NORMS AND NON-MILITARY TOOLS
168 Peter J. Katzenstein, “Introduction: Alternative Perspectives on National Security,” in The Culture of National Security: Norms and Identity in
World Politics, ed. Katzenstein (New York: Columbia University Press, 1996), 5. Current widely accepted norms for responsible state behavior in cyberspace are outlined in the 2015 report of the United Nations Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field
of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International Security (UN GGE). See General Assembly Resolution 70/174,
“Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International
Security,” A/RES/70/174 (July 22, 2015), https://undocs.org/A/70/174.
169 Martha Finnemore and Duncan Hollis, “Construction Norms for Global Cybersecurity,” American Society of International Law 110, no. 3
(July 2016): 447, https://jstor.org/stable/10.5305/amerjintelaw.110.3.0425.
170 General Assembly Resolution 73/27, “Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International
Security,” A/RES/73/27 (December 11, 2018), https://undocs.org/A/RES/73/27.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

165

NOTES

171 For example, 27 countries signed the Joint Statement on Advancing Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace, agreeing that “[t]here must
be consequences for bad behavior in cyberspace.” See “Joint Statement on Advancing Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace,” U.S.
Department of State, September 23, 2019, https://www.state.gov/joint-statement-on-advancing-responsible-state-behavior-in-cyberspace/.
172 Keith Alexander and Jamil Jaffer, “UN’s Cybercrime ‘Law’ Helps Dictators and Criminals, Not Their Victims,” The Hill, November 26,
2019, https://thehill.com/opinion/cybersecurity/471897-uns-cybercrime-law-helps-dictators-and-criminals-not-their-victims; Allison
Peters, “Russia and China Are Trying to Set the U.N.’s Rules on Cybercrime,” Foreign Policy, September 16, 2019,
https://foreignpolicy.com/2019/09/16/russia-and-china-are-trying-to-set-the-u-n-s-rules-on-cybercrime/.
173 Ellen Nakashima, “U.N. Votes to Advance Russian-Led Resolution on a Cybercrime Treaty,” Washington Post, November 19, 2019,
https://washingtonpost.com/national-security/un-votes-to-advance-russian-led-resolution-on-a-cybercrime-treaty/2019/11/19/
fb6a633e-0b06-11ea-97ac-a7ccc8dd1ebc_story.html.
174 “In the UN, China Uses Threats and Cajolery to Promote Its Worldview,” The Economist, December 7, 2019, https://www.economist.com/
china/2019/12/07/in-the-un-china-uses-threats-and-cajolery-to-promote-its-worldview.
175 While exact numbers are rare, research published in 2015 estimated the budget for Chinese “external propaganda” at $10 billion
annually, compared to $666 million that the U.S. State Department spent on public diplomacy in FY2014. See David Shambaugh,
“China’s Soft-Power Push: The Search for Respect,” Foreign Affairs 94, no. 4 (July/August 2015), https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/
china/2015-06-16/china-s-soft-power-push.
176 Bonnie Bley, “The New Geography of Global Diplomacy: China Advances as the United States Retreats,” Foreign Affairs, November 27,
2019, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2019-11-27/new-geography-global-diplomacy.
177 Garrett Hinck, “Private-Sector Initiatives for Cyber Norms: A Summary,” Lawfare, June 25, 2018, https://www.lawfareblog.com/
private-sector-cyber-norm-initiatives-summary.
178 “Joint Statement on Advancing Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace.”
179 General Assembly Resolution 73/27, “Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications.”
180 Federal Bureau of Investigation, interviewed by the U.S. Cyberspace Solarium Commission, October 2, 2019.
181 “Cyber-attacks: Council Is Now Able to Impose Sanctions,” European Council: Council of the European Union online, May 17, 2019,
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2019/05/17/cyber-attacks-council-is-now-able-to-impose-sanctions/.
182 Jason Healey, John C. Mallery, Klara Tothova Jordan, and Nathaniel V. Youd, “Confidence-Building Measures in Cyberspace: A
Multistakeholder Approach for Stability and Security,” Atlantic Council, November 5, 2014, https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/
in-depth-research-reports/report/confidence-building-measures-in-cyberspace-a-multistakeholder-approach-for-stability-and-security/.
183 General Assembly Resolution 70/174, “Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and
Telecommunications”; “Decision No. 1202: OSCE Confidence-Building Measures to Reduce the Risks of Conflict Stemming from the Use
of Information and Communications Technologies,” Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Permanent Council, March 10,
2016, available at https://www.osce.org/pc/227281?.

PROMOTE NATIONAL RESILIENCE
184 Richard Clarke and Robert Knake, The Fifth Domain: Defending Our Country, Our Companies, and Ourselves in the Age of Cyber Threats
(New York: Penguin Random House, 2019).
185 Cyber Threats to Our Nation’s Critical Infrastructure: Hearing before the Senate Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, Committee on the
Judiciary, 115th Cong. (2018) (statement of Sujit Raman, Associate Deputy Attorney General, Department of Justice),
https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/download/08-21-18-raman-testimony.
186 The 2010 DHS Risk Lexicon defines risk as the “potential for an unwanted outcome resulting from an incident, event, or occurrence, as
determined by its likelihood and the associated consequences.” It also offers an extended definition: the “potential for an adverse outcome assessed as a function of threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences associated with an incident, event, or occurrence.” Risk Steering

166

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

Committee, DHS Risk Lexicon: 2010 Edition (U.S. Department of Homeland Security, September 2010), 27,
https://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/dhs-risk-lexicon-2010.pdf.
187 Some sector-specific agencies—and their responsibilities and authorities—have been codified in law, such as the Department of Energy’s in
the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act of 2015, Pub. L. No. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312 (2015),
https://www.congress.gov/114/plaws/publ94/PLAW-114publ94.pdf.
188 “DHS Announces Funding Opportunity for Fiscal Year 2019 Preparedness Grants,” U.S. Department of Homeland Security, April 12,
2019, https://www.dhs.gov/news/2019/04/12/dhs-announces-funding-opportunity-fiscal-year-2019-preparedness-grants.
189 See “Continuity of Operations” (Federal Emergency Management Agency, accessed October 14, 2019), https://www.fema.gov/pdf/about/
org/ncp/coop_brochure.pdf, and “National Security Presidential Directive/NSPD – 51, Homeland Security Presidential Directive/HSPD –
20,” Federal Emergency Management Agency, May 4, 2007, https://www.fema.gov/txt/about/org/ncp/nspd_51.txt.
190 Christopher Bailey, “Networking Emergency Response: Empowering FEMA in the Age of Convergence and Cyber Critical Infrastructure,”
Nebraska Law Review 96, no. 2 (2017): 509–43, https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3123&context=nlr.
191 For cyber risk posed by malign actors to water infrastructure that is known by water utility companies, see Judith H. Germano,
“Cybersecurity Risk & Responsibility in the Water Sector” (American Water Works Association, 2019), 7–9, https://www.awwa.org/
Portals/0/AWWA/Government/AWWACybersecurityRiskandResponsibility.pdf?ver=2018-12-05-123319-013. For current network defense
limitations of water utilities, see Robert M. Clark, Srinivas Panguluri, Trent D. Nelson, and Richard P. Wyman, “Protecting drinking water
utilities from cyberthreats” (Idaho National Labs, February 2, 2017), 13–15, https://www.osti.gov/servlets/purl/1372266.
192 Blake Sobczak, “Hackers Force Water Utilities to Sink or Swim,” E&E News, March 28, 2019, https://www.eenews.net/
stories/1060131769.
193 Clark, Srinivas, Nelson, and Wyman, “Protecting Drinking Water Utilities from Cyberthreats,” 13–15.
194 For attempted breaches by Russia: “Alert (TA18-074A): Russian Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors,” U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, March 15, 2018,
https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/alerts/TA18-074A. For attempted breaches by others: Germano, “Cybersecurity Risk & Responsibility in the
Water Sector,” 7–9.
195 See “Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7: Critical Infrastructure Identification, Prioritization, and Protection,” U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, December 17, 2003, https://www.cisa.gov/
homeland-security-presidential-directive-7.
196 U.S. Department of Homeland Security, “National Cyber Incident Response Plan” (December 2016), https://www.us-cert.gov/sites/default/
files/ncirp/National_Cyber_Incident_Response_Plan.pdf.
197 DHS, “National Cyber Incident Response Plan.”
198 A primary lesson learned from the ransomware attack that impacted Colorado’s Department of Transportation was the need to exercise
preestablished response plans. “CDOT Cyber Incident: After-Action Report” (Colorado Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management, July 17, 2018), available at https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/dhsem/news/after-action-report-released-cdot-cyber-incident.
199 “GridEx,” North American Electric Reliability Corporation, accessed October 16, 2019, https://www.nerc.com/pa/CI/CIPOutreach/Pages/
GridEx.aspx.
200 Financial Services Sector Coordinating Council, “FSSCC Cybersecurity Recommendations for Administration and Congress 2017”
(January 18, 2017), https://fsscc.org/files/galleries/FSSCC_Cybersecurity_Recommendations_for_Administration_and_Congress_2017.pdf.
201 “Cyber Storm: Securing Cyber Space,” U.S. Department of Homeland Security, accessed October 16, 2019, https://www.dhs.gov/cisa/
cyber-storm-securing-cyber-space.
202 Examples of states relying on National Guard units to deal with cybersecurity incidents include Colorado, Louisiana, and Texas, where the
governors declared state of emergencies to activate their National Guard.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

167

NOTES

203 Information gleaned from interviews with National Guard units and from Monica M. Ruiz and David Forscey, “The Hybrid Benefits of the
National Guard,” Lawfare, July 23, 2019, https://www.lawfareblog.com/hybrid-benefits-national-guard.
204 One Guardsman told us that in the midst of responding to a cyber incident, lawyers halted his unit’s activities until all members could sign
memorandums of understanding (MOUs) with the affected entities to clarify liability exemptions.
205 Daniel R. Coats, “Statement for the Record: Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community,” Office of the Director
of National Intelligence, January 29, 2019, https://www.odni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/2019-ATA-SFR---SSCI.pdf; David E. Sanger,
“‘Chaos Is the Point’: Russian Hackers and Trolls Grow Stealthier in 2020,” New York Times, January 10, 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/
2020/01/10/us/politics/russia-hacking-disinformation-election.html.
206 Robby Mook, Matt Rhoades, and Eric Rosenbach, “Cybersecurity Campaign Playbook,” Belfer Center for Science and International
Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, November 2017, https://www.belfercenter.org/CyberPlaybook#vulnerable; Nicole Perlroth and David
Sanger, “Iranian Hackers Target Trump Campaign as Threats to 2020 Mount,” New York Times, October 4, 2019, https://www.nytimes.
com/2019/10/04/technology/iranian-campaign-hackers-microsoft.html.
207 Claire Allbright, “A Russian Facebook Page Organized a Protest in Texas: A Different Russian Page Launched
the Counterprotest,” Texas Tribune, November 1, 2017, https://www.texastribune.org/2017/11/01/
russian-facebook-page-organized-protest-texas-different-russian-page-l/.
208 Allbright, “A Russian Facebook Page Organized a Protest in Texas.”
209 “Exposing Russia’s Effort to Sow Discord Online: The Internet Research Agency and Advertisements,” U.S. House of Representatives
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, accessed December 11, 2019, https://intelligence.house.gov/social-media-content/.
210 Natasha Singer, “‘Weaponized Ad Technology’: Facebook’s Moneymaker Gets a Critical Eye,” New York Times, August 16, 2018,
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/16/technology/facebook-microtargeting-advertising.html.
211 “How Social Media Companies Are Failing to Combat Inauthentic Behaviour Online | StratCom,” accessed December 11, 2019,
https://www.stratcomcoe.org/how-social-media-companies-are-failing-combat-inauthentic-behaviour-online.
212 Rush Doshi, “China Steps Up Its Information War in Taiwan,” Foreign Affairs, January 9, 2019, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/
china/2020-01-09/china-steps-its-information-war-taiwan; Emily Feng, “Taiwan Gets Tough on Disinformation Suspected from China
Ahead of Elections,” National Public Radio, December 6, 2019, https://www.npr.org/2019/12/06/784191852/taiwan-gets-tough-ondisinformation-suspected-from-china-ahead-of-elections; Harry Krejsa, “Under Pressure: The Growing Reach of Chinese Influence
Campaigns in Democratic Societies” (Center for a New American Security, April 27, 2018), available at https://www.cnas.org/publications/
reports/under-pressure.
213 Herbert Lin, Alex Stamos, Nate Persily, and Andrew Grotto, “Increasing the Security of the U.S. Election Infrastructure,” in Securing
American Elections: Prescriptions for Enhancing the Integrity and Independence of the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election and Beyond, ed. Michael
McFaul (Stanford: Stanford Cyber Policy Center, Freeman Spogli Institute, June 6, 2019), 17–26, available at https://fsi.stanford.edu/news/
securing-american-elections-report-offers-policy-road-map.
214 Verizon, 2019 Data Breach Investigations Report (May 2019), 5, https://enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/2019-data-breachinvestigations-report.pdf.
215 Joseph S. Nye, “Protecting Democracy in an Era of Cyber Information War” (Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard
Kennedy School, February 2019), 14, https://www.belfercenter.org/sites/default/files/files/publication/ProtectingDemocracy.pdf.
216 Pete Williams, “FBI Chief Wray: Russia Works ‘365 Days a Year’ to Undermine American Democracy,” NBC News, April 26, 2019,
https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/fbi-chief-wray-russia-works-365-days-year-undermine-american-n999086.
217 Indictment, United States v. Viktor Borisovich Netyksho, et al., No. 1:18-cr-00215-ABJ (D. D.C. July 13, 2018), https://www.justice.gov/
file/1080281/download; Indictment, United States v. Internet Research Agency LLC, et al., No. 1:18-cr-00032-DLF (D. D.C. Feb. 16, 2018),
https://www.justice.gov/file/1035477/download.

168

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

218 Suzanne Spaulding, Devi Nair, and Arthur Nelson, “Beyond the Ballot: How the Kremlin Works to Undermine the U.S. Justice System”
(Center for Strategic and International Studies, May 2019), 4, https://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/190430_
RussiaUSJusticeSystem_v3_WEB_FULL.pdf.
219 “Exposing Russia’s Effort to Sow Discord Online.”
220 Kurt Thomas and Angelika Moscicki, “New Research: How Effective Is Basic Account Hygiene at Preventing Hacking,” Google Security
Blog, May 17, 2019, https://security.googleblog.com/2019/05/new-research-how-effective-is-basic.html.

RESHAPE THE CYBER ECOSYSTEM TOWARDS GREATER SECURITY
221 The early markets for internet and connected technologies rewarded first movers and did not punish insecurity in products, giving rise to
a deeply ingrained culture of prioritizing speed to market over security—a misalignment of market incentives that persists today. See, for
example, Craig Timberg, “A Flaw in the Design: The Internet’s Founders Saw Its Promise But Didn’t Foresee Users Attacking One Another,”
Washington Post, May 30, 2015, https://www.washingtonpost.com/sf/business/2015/05/30/net-of-insecurity-part-1/
?utm_term=.55c95fc02ab8, and Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, Report on Securing and Growing the Digital Economy
(December 1, 2016), 7, 25–26, https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2016/12/02/cybersecurity-commission-report-final-post.pdf.
222 “Implementing a certification and labeling program that follows a consensus security capabilities baseline represents a single government
action that can simultaneously build awareness about secure products, foster innovation, and improve security throughout the internet
ecosystem, without the need for direct regulation.” Mark Peterson, “Creating a Cybersecurity ‘Energy Star,’” Public Knowledge, July 20,
2018, https://www.publicknowledge.org/blog/creating-a-cybersecurity-energy-star/.
223 Several nongovernmental initiatives, such as Digital Standard and the Cyber Independent Testing Laboratory, are aimed at testing and
providing security information for consumer IT and IoT devices. NIST, under Section 401 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014,
is tasked with coordinating the development and dissemination of standards and best practices for cybersecurity.
224 Certifications are review processes that certify that a product meets the standards to which it is tested; labels are clear, visual, and easy to
understand symbols that convey specific information about a product’s attributes, characteristics, functionality, components, or other
features.
225 Allan Friedman, “Moving toward a More Transparent Software Supply Chain,” U.S. Department of Commerce, National
Telecommunications and Information Administration, September 30, 2019, https://www.ntia.doc.gov/blog/2019/
moving-toward-more-transparent-software-supply-chain.
226 U.S. Department of Commerce, NTIA [National Telecommunications and Information Administration] Standards and Formats Working
Group, “Draft White Paper” [on Software Bill of Materials Standards] (June 25, 2019), https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/
ntia_sbom_formats_draft_whitepaper_06.25.pdf.
227 “Secure by Default,” U.K. National Cyber Security Centre, March 7, 2018, https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/secure-default.
228 The President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council made a similar recommendation to test the security of critical technologies.
President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council, “Transforming the U.S. Cyber Threat Partnership” (December 12, 2019), 11,
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/NIAC-Working-Group-Report-DRAFT-508.pdf.
229 Open-source software forms the basis for most software written and deployed today. One survey found that 96 percent of applications contain open-source components (Zeljka Zorz, “The Percentage of Open Source Code in Proprietary Apps Is Rising,” Help Net Security, May
22, 2018, https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2018/05/22/open-source-code-security-risk/). When vulnerabilities are found in open-source
code, many of the projects that rely on that code have neither mechanisms for fixing those vulnerabilities nor mechanisms for notifying
users of the code about the patch.
230 The National Institute of Standards and Technology at the Department of Commerce is currently the governmental entity tasked with
identifying, setting, and harmonizing security standards and best practices. “Cybersecurity,” National Institute of Standards and Technology,
updated December 2019, https://www.nist.gov/topics/cybersecurity.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

169

NOTES

231 Trey Herr, “Countering the Proliferation of Malware: Targeting the Vulnerability Lifecycle” (Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, June 2017), https://www.belfercenter.org/sites/default/files/files/publication/
CounteringProliferationofMalware.pdf.
232 Frank Li and Vern Paxson, “A Large-Scale Empirical Study of Security Patches” (University of California, Berkeley, and International
Computer Science Institute, 2017), https://www.icir.org/vern/papers/patch-study.ccs17.pdf.
233 Karen Mercedes Goertzel, “Legal Liability for Bad Software,” CrossTalk, 2016, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/
310674753_Legal_liability_for_bad_software.
234 For example, as long as a vendor or assembler is providing usability updates and bug fixes for a given product or service, it must also provide
security updates.
235 See “The National Vulnerability Database,” National Institute of Standards and Technology, updated December 2019, https://nvd.nist.gov/;
“Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures,” MITRE, updated December 17, 2019, https://cve.mitre.org/.
236 See NTIA Safety Working Group, “Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure ‘Early Stage’ Template and Discussion” (November 14, 2016),
https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/safetywg_draft_11-04-16_clean.pdf, and Allen D. Householder, Garret Wassermann,
Art Manion, and Chris King, The CERT® Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (Carnegie Mellon University, Software Engineering
Institute, August 2017), https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/SpecialReport/2017_003_001_503340.pdf.
237 Verizon, 2015 Data Breach Investigations Report (April 15, 2015), 15, https://cybersecurity.idaho.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/87/2019/04/
data-breach-investigation-report_2015.pdf.
238 The required information on cyber incidents could include the type of incident, method of compromise, bill of materials of affected
systems, vulnerability or vulnerabilities revealed by the incident (if applicable), and the consequences of the incident.
239 “Cyber incidents” should be defined to include events that result in a significant loss of data, system availability, or control of systems;
impact a large number of victims; indicate unauthorized access to, or malicious software present on, critical information technology systems; affect critical infrastructure or core government functions; or threaten national security, economic security, or public health and safety.
240 National Association of Insurance Commissioners, “State Insurance Regulation: History, Purpose and Structure” (accessed September 10,
2019), 3, https://www.naic.org/documents/consumer_state_reg_brief.pdf.
241 Sasha Romanosky, Lillian Ablon, Andreas Kuehn, and Therese Jones, “Content Analysis of Cyber Insurance Policies: How Do Carriers Price
Cyber Risk?,” Journal of Cybersecurity 5, no. 1 (2019): 13, https://academic.oup.com/cybersecurity/article/5/1/tyz002/5366419.
242 U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Cyber Incident Data and Analysis Working Group, “Overcoming Perceived Obstacles to
Sharing into a Cyber Incident Data Repository” (December 2015), https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Overcoming%20
Perceived%20Obstacles%20White%20Paper_1.pdf.
243 Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, Pub. L. No. 116-94 (2019), https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/
house-bill/1865/text.
244 “Cybersecurity Insurance,” Department of Homeland Security, February 17, 2016, https://www.dhs.gov/cybersecurity-insurance.
245 “Estimated Value of Cyber Insurance Premiums Written Worldwide from 2014 to 2020,” Statista, August 9, 2019,
https://www.statista.com/statistics/533314/estimated-cyber-insurance-premiums/.
246 “Global Commercial Insurance Market to Grow $170B in P/C Premium by 2021: Aon Inpoint,” Insurance Journal, June 18, 2018,
https://www.insurancejournal.com/magazines/mag-features/2018/06/18/492041.htm.
247 Nour Aburish, Annie Fixler, and Michael Hsieh, “The Role of Cyber Insurance in Securing the Private Sector,” Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, September 13, 2019, https://www.fdd.org/analysis/2019/09/11/cyber-insurance/#easy-footnote-bottom-9-98098.
248 For example, federal acquisition regulations place requirements on vendors. “Federal Agencies and Their Procurement Regulation Websites,”
Acquisition.gov, updated December 30, 2019, https://www.acquisition.gov/content/supplemental-regulations.

170

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

249 The Binding Operational Directives (BODs) identify requirements for federal agencies in the executive branch. Each BOD prescribes a set
of actions that agency chief information security officers or their equivalents must take to manage their enterprise networks.
250 Donna Dodson, Murgiah Soppaya, and Karen Scarfone, “Mitigating the Risk of Software Vulnerabilities by Adopting a Secure Software
Development Framework” (National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2019), https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/
white-paper/2019/06/07/mitigating-risk-of-software-vulnerabilities-with-ssdf/draft/documents/ssdf-for-mitigating-risk-of-softwarevulns-draft.pdf.
251 International Organization for Standardization, “ISO/IEC 27001 Information Security Management” International Organization for
Standardization, https://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-information-security.html
252 “NTIA Software Component Transparency,” National Telecommunications and Information Administration, September 5, 2019,
https://www.ntia.doc.gov/SoftwareTransparency.
253 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002), https://www.congress.gov/107/plaws/publ204/
PLAW-107publ204.pdf.
254 Securities and Exchange Commission, “Commission Statement and Guidance on Public Company Cybersecurity Disclosures” (February
26, 2018), https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2018/33-10459.pdf.
255 The desired metric (in minutes) for the detection, investigation, and remediation of cyber breaches is 1-10-60. For more information, see
Robert Lemos, “Most Companies Lag Behind ‘1-10-60’ Benchmark for Breach Response,” Dark Reading, November 19, 2019,
https://www.darkreading.com/threat-intelligence/most-companies-lag-behind-1-10-60-benchmark-for-breach-response/d/d-id/1336401.
256 Cloud-based services deliver computing services over the internet (“the cloud”) through a third-party provider rather than through capital
investment in building and maintaining data centers. According to NIST, “Cloud computing is a model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services)
that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction”; “NIST Cloud Computing
Program – NCCP,” NIST, updated July 9, 2019, https://www.nist.gov/programs-projects/nist-cloud-computing-program-nccp. For more
information, see Navdeep Aggarwal, Parshant Tyagi, Bhanu P. Dubey, and Emmanuel S. Pilli, “Cloud Computing: Data Storage Security
Analysis and Its Challenges,” International Journal of Computer Applications 70, no. 24 (May 2013): 33–37, https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/
4c74/46c1b97ff8947166e02cf3f465022a4d13c3.pdf; “What Is Cloud Computing? A Beginner’s Guide,” Microsoft Azure, 2020, https://
azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/what-is-cloud-computing/; and “What Is Cloud Computing?,” Google Cloud, accessed February 3,
2020, https://cloud.google.com/what-is-cloud-computing/.
257 For example, cloud computing strengthens data backup and lessens the impact of disaster recovery because data is stored independently on
the third-party provider’s data center.
258 “What Is Cloud Computing,” Microsoft Azure.
259 Palo Alto Networks, “Cloud Threat Report: Putting the Sec in DevOps,” Palo Alto Networks, 2020, https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/
unit-42-cloud-threat-report?CampaignId=7010g000001J2yiAAC&referer=null&utm_medium=direct-mail&utm_source=
Unit+42+Cloud+Threat+Risk+Report%3A+Cloudy+with+a+Chance+of+Entropy.
260 “69% of Enterprises Will Have Multi-cloud/Hybrid IT Environments by 2019, But Greater Choice Brings Excessive Complexity” (451
Research, November 27, 2017), https://451research.com/images/Marketing/press_releases/Pre_Re-Invent_2018_press_release_final_11_22.pdf.
261 The ransomware that impacted 23 Texas entities was transmitted through a compromised managed service provider that was used by those
entities. Benjamin Freed, “How Texas Used Its Disaster Playbook after a Huge Ransomware Attack,” State Scoop, October 15, 2019,
https://statescoop.com/texas-ransomware-emergency-declaration-nascio-19/.
262 “Towards a More Secure and Trusted Cloud in Europe,” European Commission, December 9, 2019,
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/towards-more-secure-and-trusted-cloud-europe.
263 See, for example, Dothang Truong, “How Cloud Computing Enhances Competitive Advantages: A Research Model for Small Businesses,”
Business Review 12, no. 1 (2010): 59–65, https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dothang_Truong/publication/273447113_How_cloud_
computing_enhances_competitive_advantages_A_research_model_for_small_businesses/links/554286940cf23ff716835f5e.pdf.

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

171

NOTES

264 Timberg, “A Flaw in the Design.”
265 The President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council made a similar recommendation to encourage broader implementation of security
measures. President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council, “Transforming the U.S. Cyber Threat Partnership,” 10.
266 Jason Healey and Robert Knake, “Zero Botnets,” Council on Foreign Relations (2018), https://www.cfr.org/sites/default/files/report_pdf/
CSR83_HealeyKnake_Botnets_0.pdf.
267 Joy Ma and Tim Matthews, “The Underground Bot Economy: How Bots Impact the Global Economy,” Imperva Incapsula, 2016,
http://incapsula.com/blog/how-bots-impact-global-economy.html.
268 International Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2018, S. 3288, 115th Cong. (2018), https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/
senate-bill/3288/text.
269 U.S. Department of Justice, Report of the Attorney General’s Cyber Digital Task Force (Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, July 2,
2018), 124, https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1076696/download.
270 “Two International Cybercriminal Rings Dismantled and Eight Defendants Indicted for Causing Tens of Millions of Dollars in Losses in
Digital Advertising Fraud,” press release, United States Attorney’s Office, Eastern District of New York, November 27, 2018,
https://www.justice.gov/usao-edny/pr/two-international-cybercriminal-rings-dismantled-and-eight-defendants-indicted-causing.
271 “Two International Cybercriminal Rings Dismantled.”
272 “About Us,” National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance, accessed January 20, 2020, https://www.ncfta.net/home-2/about-us/.
273 “Two International Cybercriminal Rings Dismantled.”
274 Jared T. Brown and Moshe Schwartz, “The Defense Production Act of 1950: History, Authorities, and Considerations for Congress”
(Congressional Research Service, updated November 20, 2018), https://fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/R43767.pdf.
275 The Office of the Director of National Intelligence noted this vulnerability and made addressing it a strategic objective in “National
Counterintelligence Strategy of the United States of America, 2020–2022” (February 2020), 7, https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/
documents/features/20200205-National_CI_Strategy_2020_2022.pdf.
276 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Pub. L. No. 116-92 (2019), https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/
senate-bill/1790/text.
277 “Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Risk Management Task Force,” Department of Homeland Security, accessed
January 10, 2020, https://www.cisa.gov/information-and-communications-technology-ict-supply-chain-risk-management-scrm-task-force.
278 This aggregated information relating to supply chains would include classified and unclassified information, threat information, and proprietary and sensitive information (e.g., software transparency and software bill of materials).
279 In the 2020 National Defense Authorization Act, Congress created a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task Force
to “standardize information sharing between the intelligence community and the acquisition community of the United States Government
with respect to the supply chain and counterintelligence risks” (§ 6306(b)).
280 Robert D. Hof, “Lessons from Sematech,” MIT Technology Review, July 25, 2011, https://www.technologyreview.com/s/424786/
lessons-from-sematech/.
281 Altaf H. (Tof ) Carim, William T. (Tim) Polk, and Erin Szulman, “Realizing the Potential of Quantum Information Science and
Advancing High-Performance Computing,” The White House, July 26, 2016, https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2016/07/26/
realizing-potential-quantum-information-science-and-advancing-high-performance.
282 National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence, Interim Report (November 2019), 25, https://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/-/
media/sites/magazine/03_linkedfiles/nscai-interim-report-for-congress.ashx?la=en.
283 Russell T. Vought and Kelvin K. Droegemeier, “Fiscal Year 2021 Administration Research and Development Budget Priorities” (Executive
Office of the President, August 30, 2019), https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/FY-21-RD-Budget-Priorities.pdf.

172

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

NOTES

284 National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC), “NSTAC Report to the President on a Cybersecurity Moonshot”
(November 14, 2018), ES-1, ES-2, https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/NSTAC_CyberMoonshotReport_508c.pdf.
285 NSTAC, “NSTAC Report to the President,” 10.
286 “Most Profitable,” Fortune, accessed September 30, 2019, https://fortune.com/fortune500/2019/search/; “Cyberstates,” CompTIA, accessed
October 2, 2019, https://www.cyberstates.org/.
287 The requirements of a data breach notification law are not to be confused with statistical data gathering associated with the cyber incident
reporting discussed earlier in this section or those of the “National Cyber Incident Reporting Law” advocated in the following pillar (recommendation 5.2.2).
288 “2019 Security Breach Legislation,” National Conference of State Legislatures, July 26, 2019, http://www.ncsl.org/research/
telecommunications-and-information-technology/2019-security-breach-legislation.aspx.
289 Arne Holst, “Number of iPhone Users in the United States from 2012 to 2021,” Statista, September 13, 2019, https://www.statista.com/
statistics/232790/forecast-of-apple-users-in-the-us/; J. Clement, “Number of Daily Active WhatsApp Status Users from 1st Quarter 2017 to
1st Quarter 2019,” Statista, August 9, 2019, https://www.statista.com/statistics/730306/whatsapp-status-dau/.
290 David Kaye, “Report of the Special Rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of the Right to Freedom of Opinion and Expression,”
UN Human Rights Council, A/HRC/29/32 (May 22, 2015), available at https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/798709?ln=en.

OPERATIONALIZE CYBERSECURITY COLLABORATION WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR
291 “Exec. Order No. 13636: Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,” 78 Fed. Reg. 11739, 11740 (Feb. 12, 2013),
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2013/02/19/2013-03915/improving-critical-infrastructure-cybersecurity.
292 The U.S. government recognizes critical entities through a process designated under Section 9 of Executive Order 13636, but this designation neither affords the U.S. government new responsibilities, authorities, resources, or funding to assist these entities nor establishes
requirements for such entities in light of their criticality to U.S. national security, economic security, and public health and safety.
293 The President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council detailed a similar recommendation to make cyber intelligence more actionable.
President’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council, “Transforming the U.S. Cyber Threat Partnership” (December 12, 2019), 8, https://
www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/NIAC-Working-Group-Report-DRAFT-508.pdf.
294 Examples of current voluntary network monitoring and threat detection programs include the Department of Energy’s Cybersecurity Risk
Information Sharing Program, Cyber Analytics Tools and Techniques Pilot, the Department of Homeland Security’s CyberSentry, and law
enforcement consent and monitoring programs.
295 Working with the DoD Chief Information Officer and NSA, U.S. Cyber Command developed the Pathfinder initiative alongside DHS,
sector-specific agencies, and select critical infrastructure partners to share threat information, conduct collaborative analysis of vulnerabilities
and threats, and mitigate those risks. U.S. Cyber Command’s efforts in this field occur at the request of and in collaboration with federal
government partners, particularly DHS and the FBI.
296 “U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and U.S. Department of Defense Announce Pathfinder
Initiative to Protect U.S. Energy Critical Infrastructure,” U.S. Department of Energy, February 2020, https://www.energy.gov/articles/
us-department-energy-us-department-homeland-security-and-us-department-defense-announce.

PRESERVE AND EMPLOY THE MILITARY INSTRUMENTS OF POWER
297 Defend forward, as the Commission defines it, entails proactively observing, pursuing, and countering adversary operations and imposing costs in day-to-day competition to disrupt and defeat ongoing malicious adversary cyber campaigns, deter future campaigns, and
reinforce favorable international norms of behavior, using all of the instruments of national power. This is a reimagining and expansion of the defend forward concept as initially conceived of in the 2018 DoD Cyber Strategy, which focuses solely on the military

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

173

NOTES

instrument. U.S. Department of Defense, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), https://media.defense.gov/2018/
Sep/18/2002041658/-1/-1/1/CYBER_STRATEGY_SUMMARY_FINAL.PDF.
298 United States Special Operations Command and United States Cyber Command: Hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 116th
Congress, 4 (February 14, 2019) (statement of General Paul M. Nakasone, Commander United States Cyber Command).
299 William T. Eliason, “An Interview with Paul M. Nakasone,” Joint Forces Quarterly 92 (1st Quarter 2019): 6–7.
300 DoD, “Summary: Department of Defense Cyber Strategy” (2018), 1.
301 U.S. Department of Defense Directive 5100.03, “Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Unified Commands”
(February 9, 2011; incorporating Change 1, September 7, 2017), https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/
dodd/510003p.pdf.
302 “U.S. Cyber Command Shares 11 New Malware Samples,” CISA, September 8, 2019, https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/currentactivity/2019/09/08/us-cyber-command-shares-11-new-malware-samples; “@CYBERCOM_Malware_Alert,” VirusTotal, accessed February
12, 2020, https://www.virustotal.com/en/user/CYBERCOM_Malware_Alert/.
303 As defined in Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Cyberspace Operations, Joint Publication 3-12 (June 8, 2018), “The term
‘blue cyberspace’ denotes areas in cyberspace protected by the US, its mission partners, and other areas DOD may be ordered to protect,”
while “‘red cyberspace’ refers to those portions of cyberspace owned or controlled by an adversary or enemy.” Finally, “all cyberspace that
does not meet the description of either ‘blue’ or ‘red’ is referred to as ‘gray’ cyberspace” (I-4, I-5). These are distinctly U.S. terms of reference; as part of an effective defend forward strategy in the future, the United States must come to a shared understanding of blue, gray, and
red space with allied and partner countries.
304 As DoD begins to use and incorporate emerging technology, such as artificial intelligence (AI), into its weapon platforms and systems,
cybersecurity will also need to be incorporated into the early stages of the acquisition process.
305 “Weapon Systems Cybersecurity: DOD Just Beginning to Grapple with Scale of Vulnerabilities,” GAO-19-128 (U.S. Government
Accountability Office, October 2018), 28, https://www.gao.gov/assets/700/694913.pdf.
306 This recommendation applies to the DIB, defined as “[t]he Department of Defense, government, and private sector worldwide industrial
complex with capabilities to perform research and development and design, produce, and maintain military weapon systems, subsystems,
components, or parts to meet military requirements.” This recommendation does not include entities such as Defense Critical Infrastructure
(DCI), defined as “Department of Defense and non-Department of Defense networked assets and facilities essential to project, support,
and sustain military forces and operations worldwide.” Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, DOD Dictionary of Military and
Associated Terms (January 2020), 59, https://www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Doctrine/pubs/dictionary.pdf.
307 “Strengthening the Front Line: NSA Launches New Cybersecurity Directorate,” National Security Agency/Central
Security Service, October 1, 2019, https://www.nsa.gov/News-Features/News-Stories/Article-View/Article/1973871/
strengthening-the-front-line-nsa-launches-new-cybersecurity-directorate/.
308 Frank Arute et al., “Quantum Supremacy Using a Programmable Superconducting Processor,” Nature 574 (October 24, 2019): 505,
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-019-1666-5.pdf.
309 Lamont Wood, “The Clock Is Ticking for Encryption,” Computerworld, March 21, 2011,
https://www.computerworld.com/article/2550008/the-clock-is-ticking-for-encryption.html.
310 Elsa B. Kania and John K. Costello, “Quantum Hegemony? China’s Ambitions and the Challenge to U.S. Innovation Leadership” (Center
for a New American Security, September 2018), available at https://www.cnas.org/publications/reports/quantum-hegemony.

174

Cyberspace Solarium Commission

