Source - https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/ncirp/National_Cyber_Incident_Response_Plan.pdf

Threat Response, Asset Response, Intelligence Support. National Cyber Incident Response Plan, pg. 12-21.

Threat Response

Threat response activities encompass many resources and capabilities from across the law
enforcement and defense community. Threat response activities during a cyber incident include
investigative, forensic, analytical, and mitigation activities; interdiction of a threat actor; and
providing attribution that may lead to information sharing and operational synchronization with asset
response activities. Threat response activities also include conducting appropriate law enforcement
and national security investigative activities at the affected entity’s site, linking related incidents, and
identifying additional affected or potentially affected entities. As described earlier, threat responders
and asset responders collaborate to foster a unity of effort to facilitate their activities while
responding to incidents. The SLTT community and the private sector play important roles in working
with respective law enforcement entities on threat response activities. Federal agencies with
counterintelligence functions, such as those of DHS, DOJ, DoD, Department of Energy (DOE), and
members of the Intelligence Community (IC), may perform a substantial threat response role when a
significant cyber incident affects their duties or responsibilities, or there is suspicion of activities
conducted a foreign power or agent of a foreign power.
Private Sector
Private sector entities perform critical roles in supporting threat response activities by reporting and
sharing information regarding cyber incidents and malicious cyber activity in a timely manner to
appropriate law enforcement agencies or government entities. Information, communications, and
technology providers and manufacturers—such as Internet service providers, common carriers,
manufacturers of key networking hardware, and major software companies—also play an important
role in the threat response to malicious cyber activity, due to the potential exploitation or use of their
systems by cyber threat actors. Points of contact for reporting incidents to Federal Government
entities are provided in Annex D: Reporting Cyber Incidents to the Federal Government. Private
sector entities should also adhere to regulatory and legal requirements when reporting cyber
incidents. Private sector cybersecurity practitioners and providers that offer critical services (such as
managed security services, indications and warning, cybersecurity assessment, and incident response)
may also possess information concerning malicious cyber activity that is important to enable threat
response activities. The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 provides liability and other
legal protections to private sector and certain SLTT government organizations and establishes
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
13
important conditions regarding sharing information with the Federal Government, SLTT government
organizations, and the private sector.18
State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Governments
Many states and locals have criminal statutes regarding unauthorized access or damage to computer
systems, which could be implicated in a cyber incident. State fusion centers are situated at the
intersection between federal and local law enforcement, and play a role in sharing threat-related
information between federal, SLTT and/or private sector partners. However, state fusion centers vary
greatly in their cyber capacity and capability. Local governments, particularly large cities, play an
important role in local response activities. Often times, private citizens and small businesses do not
have relationships with or access to federal law enforcement or in incident response activities. Local
governments have a critical responsibility to provide a communication bridge to federal and state law
enforcement and incident responders. As identified in the previous sub-section (Private Sector), the
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 establishes legal protections and important conditions
for sharing information with the Federal Government, SLTT government organizations, and the
private sector.
Federal Government
In response to cyber incidents, federal law enforcement agencies work across SLTT and the Federal
Government, international engagements, and with private sector entities to address both criminal and
national security cyber threats. Federal law enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), United States Secret Service (U.S. Secret Service), and U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), conduct threat response
activities related to criminal activity involving their investigative jurisdictions and coordinate
appropriately. Sharing action information in an unclassified format between the IC and first
responders is critical in coordinating incident response activities.
Pursuant to PPD-41, during the event of a significant cyber incident for which a Cyber Unified
Coordination Group (UCG) is convened, the DOJ, through the FBI and the National Cyber
Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF), will serve as the lead federal agency for threat response
activities. The specific responsibilities and coordinating roles for this line of effort during a
significant cyber incident are detailed in the Operational Coordination During a Significant Cyber
Incident section of this Plan.
DOJ’s Offices of U.S. Attorneys and its’ Criminal and National Security Divisions, working with
federal law enforcement agencies, use criminal and national security authorities to investigate,
prosecute, and disrupt cyber threats and to apprehend cyber threat actors. Information and evidence
obtained pursuant to appropriate legal process are used to identify the source of cyber incidents and
to gather pertinent cyber threat information. Nationwide coordination of cyber prosecutorial
initiatives is conducted through the DOJ Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Program for
criminal matters and by the DOJ National Security Cyber Specialist Network for cyber threats to the
national security. In addition, DOJ, through the FBI and NCIJTF, shares investigative information
and cyber threat intelligence, as appropriate, with other federal agencies to aid in the analysis of
cyber threats and vulnerabilities. The FBI Cyber Task Forces in all 56 field offices support SLTT

18 Further information and guidance to assist non-federal entities to share cyber threat indicators and defensive
measures with federal entities under the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 can be found at
https://www.us-cert.gov/ais.
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
14
law enforcement in maintaining relationships and sharing information with the private sector,
offering training and certification courses, and coordination of domestic cyber threat investigations.
The U.S. Secret Service has a national network of Electronic Crimes Task Forces, which combine the
resources of academia, the private sector, and SLTT law enforcement to prevent, detect, and
investigate electronic crimes, including potential terrorist attacks against critical infrastructure and
financial payment systems.
DoD is responsible for threat response to cyber incidents affecting DoD assets and the DoD
Information Network (DoDIN). DoD can also support civil authorities for cyber incidents outside the
DoDIN when requested by the lead federal agency, and approved by the appropriate DoD official, or
directed by the President. Such support would be provided based upon the needs of the incident, the
capabilities required, and the readiness of available forces.
Asset Response
Asset response activities include furnishing technical assistance to affected entities, mitigating
vulnerabilities, identifying additional at-risk entities, and assessing their risk to the same or similar
vulnerabilities. These activities could also include communicating with the affected entity to
understand the nature of the cyber incident; providing guidance to the affected entity on available
federal, SLTT, and private sector resources and capabilities; promptly disseminating new intelligence
and information through the appropriate channels; and facilitating information sharing and
operational coordination with other Federal Government, SLTT government, and private sector
entities. Critical asset response activities also include assessing potential risks to a sector or region,
including potential cascading and interdependency effects, developing courses of action to mitigate
these risks, and providing guidance on how best to utilize federal, SLTT, and private sector resources
and capabilities in a timely, effective manner.
Asset and threat responders coordinate and share some responsibilities and activities when
responding to a cyber incident. The roles and responsibilities in asset response vary, which highlights
that unity of effort and shared responsibility is necessary to protect the Nation against cyber
incidents.
Private Sector
The private sector, especially the owners and operators of critical infrastructure, plays a key role in
responding to cyber incidents. Small, medium, and large private sector entities are often the first and
primary responders to cyber incidents. Private companies are responsible for the security of their own
systems, and they are normally the first to identify an incident and are often in the best place to
respond to it. Private entities may have reporting or disclosure requirements related to cyber
incidents, which they have to comply with as they respond to the incident. In most cases, these
incidents are considered routine and are mitigated by the company using internal resources or with
the assistance of contracted services providers. Routine, steady-state information sharing related to
cyber incidents, even when mandatory reporting is not required, alerts other at-risk entities and
allows them to mitigate vulnerabilities that may have cascading impacts to their systems.
Private sector service providers and cybersecurity practitioners offer critical services, such as
managed security services, indications and warning, cybersecurity assessment, and incident response,
which system owners and other asset responders might need when managing an incident. These
private sector resources can serve as surge and specialty support to augment an in-house
cybersecurity team at an affected entity.
Information, communications, and technology providers and manufacturers, such as Internet service
providers, other common carriers, manufacturers of key networking hardware, and major software
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
15
companies, play an important role in defending against and responding to malicious cyber activity.
Effective coordination between these private sector entities and other response organizations is often
essential in cyber incident response.
Critical infrastructure owners and operators work with DHS and relevant sector-specific agencies
(SSA) implementing the National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP)19 tenets of public-private
partnership to improve preparedness and manage risk. Due to the tightly interconnected and
interdependent nature of some sectors, companies may also provide information to other entities in
the sector or in other sectors, to facilitate shared situational awareness, contain the incident, and/or
mitigate any damage. Thus, companies will potentially look to share and receive information from a
variety of sources including DHS, SSAs, and federal and SLTT law enforcement and
counterintelligence activities as well as their respective sector Information Sharing Analysis Centers
(ISAC) and other information sharing and analysis organizations.
Most private sector operational information sharing is conducted through ISACs. ISACs are typically
a sector-based type of Information Sharing and Analysis Organization (ISAO) and operate through a
defined sector-based model, meaning that organizations within a certain sector (i.e. financial
services, energy, aviation, etc.) join together to share information about cyber threats. Although
many of these groups are already essential drivers of effective cybersecurity collaboration, some
organizations do not fit neatly within an established sector or have unique needs. ISAOs can be
formed based upon geography, sector, or any other grouping in which companies are interested and is
a group created to gather, analyze, and disseminate cyber threat information. Those organizations
that cannot join an ISAC but have a need for cyber threat information could benefit from
membership in an ISAO. Unlike ISACs, ISAOs are not necessarily tied to critical infrastructure
sectors.20
In the case of cyber incidents, especially significant cyber incidents, greater coordination may be
needed with the Federal Government, SLTT communities, regulators within the sector, and among
multiple sectors. In addition to responding to situations in which private companies are themselves
the victims of cyber incidents, private entities also respond to situations in which private sector
service providers (especially Internet service providers, managed security service providers, and
other technology vendors) provide support for national-level incident response efforts. During such
an incident, the private sector often provides support or assistance to federal and SLTT departments
and agencies on preparedness and response activities. Federal and SLTT regulators also have
mandatory reporting requirements for certain types of cyber incidents in certain sectors. Depending
on the sector and type of incident, some response actions may require regulator coordination,
approval, and/or regulatory relief.
As appropriate, private sector entities provide for the security of their networks and security
processing of breaches or other incidents through standing in-house or contracted services or use of
external experts. Standing services are a part of the entity’s network structure, and the private sector
entity are encouraged share with government responders the information the standing services
develop or pursue concerning a cyber incident. The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015
provides liability and other legal protections to private sector and certain SLTT government
organizations and establishes important conditions regarding sharing information with the Federal
Government, SLTT government organizations, and the private sector.21

19 NIPP, 2013. https://www.dhs.gov/national-infrastructure-protection-plan. 20 https://www.dhs.gov/isao-faq 21 Further information and guidance to assist non-federal entities to share cyber threat indicators and defensive
measures with federal entities under the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 can be found at
https://www.us-cert.gov/ais.
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
16
State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Government
Ensuring the safety and welfare of citizens is a fundamental responsibility of government at every
level. Toward these objectives, key executives, executive leadership, elected officials, and executive
staff of each SLTT government are responsible for ensuring preparedness, response, and recovery
activities within their jurisdiction.
In cases of cyber incidents, the standard emergency response roles and responsibilities may not be
sufficient to address technical challenges. Each state is responsible for developing a plan that
describes their role in asset response for entities within their state. This state plan should be
consistent with the NCIRP and serve as a cyber annex to their respective state emergency
management plan. Information described in Annex G: Developing an Internal Cyber Incident
Response Plan provides information each state can consider when developing a cyber incident
response plan that coordinates identifying, detecting, mitigating, responding to, and recovering from
cyber incidents in their state.
In establishing strong governance and reporting mechanisms, executives should identify key
individual response points-of-contact for their respective governments and ensure the Federal
Government has the most up-to-date information for these individuals. To facilitate coordination
during a significant cyber incident response operation, each key executive should pre-designate a
primary individual to serve as Senior Official to represent its government. Until amended, by each
key executive, the NCCIC uses the state Homeland Security Advisors as its primary point of contact.
Governance is vital and an enabling factor in states' cyber asset response role. This includes the
supporting legal framework, policies, plans, and procedures that codify the state chief information
security officer's authorities and responsibilities. Governance also outlines how these relate to
executive branch departments and agencies, and other state-operated entities to include (and not
limited to) state and local emergency management functions, law enforcement, the judicial and
legislative branches, ports, airports, and other state owned critical infrastructure. As identified in the
previous sub-section (Private Sector), the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 establishes
legal protections and important conditions for sharing information with the Federal Government,
SLTT government organizations, and the private sector.
Resources available to SLTT communities include, but are not limited to, the following:
 Regional Homeland Security Offices and Fusion Centers;
 Multi-State ISAC (MS-ISAC) is funded through grants from DHS to support the security of the
SLTT government networks22 and acts as a focal point for critical information exchange and
coordination between the SLTT community and the Federal Government; every state has an MSISAC primary member, usually the state chief information security officer (CISO);
 Local governments that are eligible to apply and receive Urban Area Security Initiative grant
funds are encouraged to include cybersecurity and training programs as part of their
expenditures.
 DHS National Protection and Programs Directorate field personnel, including:

22 The MS-ISAC does not help SLTT governments who are seeking to support the private sector. If an SLTT
government is supporting a private sector company in asset response, the SLTT government should engage directly
with the NCCIC.
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
17
• Supervisory, regional, and district-level Cybersecurity Advisors, who work closely with
SLTT Chief Information Security Officers and cyber emergency management communities
as cybersecurity subject matter experts;
• Regional directors and Protective Security Advisors, who work closely with state homeland
security advisors as critical infrastructure protection specialists;
 The Governors Homeland Security Advisors Council, which provides a structure through which
homeland security advisors from each state, territory, and the District of Columbia discuss
homeland security issues, share information and expertise, and keep governors informed of the
issues affecting homeland security policies in the states;
 The SLTT Government Coordinating Councils (SLTT GCC), which strengthen the sector
partnership structure by bringing together geographically diverse experts from a wide range of
critical infrastructure disciplines to ensure that SLTT officials play an integral role in national
critical infrastructure security and resilience efforts.
The National Guard is a force with dual state and federal roles. National Guard forces have expertise
in critical response functions and many also have expertise and capabilities in cyber activities. At the
direction of a State Governor and Adjutant General, the National Guard may perform state missions,
including supporting civil authorities in response to a cyber incident. In certain circumstances, as
permitted by law, the National Guard may be requested to perform federal service or be ordered to
active duty to perform DoD missions, which could include supporting a federal agency in response to
a cyber incident.
Following a cyber incident, SLTT community leaders and points of contact may be asked to provide
advice, support, and assistance to federal departments and agencies on preparedness and response
activities related to SLTT priorities. Cyber incidents can cause cascading and/or physical impacts
that implicate non-cyber incident response activities by SLTT governments. Key executives and
points of contact have a need for situational awareness of the Federal Government’s asset response
activities even when a cyber incident does not affect the SLTT government systems. They should be
prepared to request additional resources from the Federal Government—for instance, under the
Stafford Act—in the event of a cyber incident that exceeds their government’s capabilities.
Federal Government
Federal asset response to a significant cyber incident encompasses many resources and capabilities
from across the federal departments and agencies as well as with the private sector. In response to
cyber incidents, the Federal Government works with both domestic and foreign partners, including
both private sector and governmental entities, to assist in assessments, mitigation, recovery, and
restoration activities. Pursuant to PPD-41, in the event of a significant cyber incident for which a
Cyber UCG is convened, DHS, through the NCCIC, will serve as the lead federal agency for asset
response activities. The specific responsibilities and coordinating roles for this line of effort during a
significant cyber incident are detailed in the Operational Coordination During a Significant Cyber
Incident section of this Plan.
The Office of Management and Budget and the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of
2014 directs federal departments and agencies to report major cyber incidents within seven days as
well as submitting to Congress, DHS, and Office of Management and Budget on an annual basis.
23
23 Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014. Public Law No: 113-283. December 18, 2014.
https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/senate-bill/2521
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
18
DHS, through the US-CERT, must be notified of all computer security incidents involving a Federal
Government information system with a confirmed impact to confidentiality, integrity, or availability
within one hour of being positively identified by the agency’s top-level Computer Security Incident
Response Team (CSIRT), Security Operations Center, or Information Technology department.24
DHS provides strategic guidance, promotes a national unity of effort, and coordinates the overall
federal effort to promote the security and resilience of the Nation’s critical infrastructure from cyber
and other threats.25 Per the NCPA, DHS, through the NCCIC, serves as the federal civilian interface
for sharing information related to cybersecurity risks, incidents, analysis, and warnings for federal
and non-federal entities.26 The NCCIC facilitates information sharing to help identify other entities at
risk to the same or similar vulnerabilities and shares mitigation recommendations and best practices
to protect those at risk. The NCCIC closely coordinates with the SSAs, representatives from multiple
agencies, and the private sector to share cybersecurity information, information about risks and
incidents, analysis, and warnings among federal and non-federal entities, and to facilitate
coordination regarding cybersecurity risks and incidents across the civilian communities, SLTT
governments, and the private sector. Federal asset response support to the private sector from the
NCCIC in the form of on-site technical assistance is generally contingent on a request from or
consent of the supported entity.
SSAs also play a role in sector coordination, working closely with DHS and serving as a day-to-day
federal interface to prioritize and coordinate activities within their respective sectors; carrying out
incident management responsibilities consistent with statutory authority and other appropriate
policies, directives, or regulations; and providing support or facilitating technical assistance and
consultations for that sector to identify vulnerabilities and help mitigate incidents, as appropriate.
DHS ensures consistent and integrated approaches across various critical infrastructure sectors, and a
nationwide approach including both unity of effort and unity of messages.
DHS, working with relevant SSAs, also coordinates the Government’s efforts to understand the
potential business or operational impact of a cyber incident on critical infrastructure in a given sector
and across sectors. The relevant SSA will generally coordinate the Federal Government’s efforts to
understand the potential business or operational impact of a cyber incident on private sector critical
infrastructure. SSAs receive support from the DHS NCCIC and the National Infrastructure
Coordinating Center to maintain and provide situational awareness on threats, incidents, or events
impacting critical infrastructure and to facilitate information sharing. This includes a near-real-time
capability to provide SSA reports, coordinated with FEMA ESF reporting provided by the National
Response Coordination Center, and the capability to solicit and receive information on incidents
from public and private sector critical infrastructure partners. Because SSAs often have authorities,
responsibilities, and partnerships with private industry that extend beyond security and resilience
issues, SSAs play a lead role in integrating response to the technical aspects of cybersecurity
incidents with efforts to mitigate the systemic impacts of such incidents to sectors.

24 US-CERT Federal Incident Notification Guidelines. https://www.us-cert.gov/incident-notification-guidelines 25 Presidential Policy Directive 21: Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience. February 12, 2013. PPD-12 also
assigns roles and responsibilities to other federal agencies. The Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of
Investigation lead counterterrorism and counterintelligence investigations and related law enforcement activities
across critical infrastructure. The Department of Homeland Security and the Attorney General collaborate to carry
out their respective missions in critical infrastructure. https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-pressoffice/2013/02/12/presidential-policy-directive-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resil 26 The National Cybersecurity Protection Act of 2014. Public Law 113-282. December 18, 2014.
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-113publ282/pdf/PLAW-113publ282.pdf.
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
19
In responding to cyber incidents, DHS also works with foreign partners to exchange information and
coordinate incident response activities. This international coordination principally occurs between the
NCCIC and its foreign government CSIRT counterparts and builds on regular information sharing
and operational coordination relationships. The DOC coordinates with federal, international, and
private sector partners on the impacts of cyber incidents on the Internet ecosystem: the domain name
system and the digital economy platform representatives to assess those impacts. Through the
National Telecommunications and Information Administration and NIST, DOC serves as the
Nation’s authority on cybersecurity risk management practices and also fulfills responsibilities under
the Defense Production Act27 through the Bureau of Industry and Security, including support to
critical infrastructure.
In some cases, regulatory or contract requirements could impose certain obligations on the affected
entity related to asset response support, such as mandatory reporting requirements and/or national
security determinations that may override normal consultative processes. Additionally, where they
have relevant authority, federal regulators should be engaged early in the incident response process to
ensure that actions requiring waiver or other approval or notification can be quickly executed.
Regulators may also be able to facilitate coordinated actions of their respective sectors as necessary
during significant cyber incidents.
DoD will be responsible for managing the asset response affected military assets and the DoDIN.
DoD can also support civil authorities in responding to cyber incidents outside the DoDIN through a
Defense Support of Civil Authorities request based upon a request by the lead federal agency and
approved by the appropriate DoD official or directed by the President. Support would be provided
based on the needs of the incident, the capabilities required, and the readiness of available forces.
When incidents affect IC assets, the IC Security Coordination Center (IC SCC) is responsible for
asset response. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) manages the threat and
asset response for the integrated defense of the IC information environment through the IC SCC, in
conjunction with IC mission partners and with support from other federal agencies, as appropriate.
Intelligence Support
Intelligence and related supporting activities play an important role to better understand the cyber
incident and existing targeted diplomatic, economic, or military capabilities to respond and share
threat and mitigation information with other potential affected entities or responders. Especially
during a significant cyber incident, asset and threat responders should leverage intelligence support
activities as necessary to build situational threat awareness; share related threat indicators and
analysis of threats; identify and acknowledge gaps; and ultimately create a comprehensive picture of
the incident.
State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Government
States fusion centers involve various levels of state government, private sector entities, and the
public—though the level of involvement of some of these participants will vary based on specific
circumstances. The fusion process should be organized and coordinated, at a minimum, on a
statewide level, and each state should establish and maintain a center to facilitate the fusion process.
Though the foundation of fusion centers is the law enforcement intelligence component, center
leadership should evaluate their respective jurisdictions to determine what public safety and private
sector entities should participate in the fusion center.

27 Defense Production Act of 1950, as Amended October 2009. (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et seq.)
https://www.fema.gov/media-library/assets/documents/15666
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
20
Federal Government
ODNI, through the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center (CTIIC), provides intelligence
support to federal agencies in response to cyber incidents. Pursuant to PPD-41, in the event of a
significant cyber incident for which a Cyber UCG is convened, ODNI, through CTIIC, will serve as
the lead federal agency for intelligence support and related activities. The specific responsibilities
and coordinating roles for this line of effort during a significant cyber incident are detailed in the
Operational Coordination During a Significant Cyber Incident section of this Plan.
In this role, CTIIC coordinates development of federal intelligence information for the other federal
cybersecurity centers and federal stakeholders. This could include pursuing declassification of
intelligence and/or “tear-line” reports at different classification levels as appropriate to the
circumstances of the incident and overall U.S. equities. CTIIC also coordinates any intelligence
collection activities that may take place as part of the incident through the National Intelligence
Manager for Cyber.
Each intelligence operational center has its own organic intelligence support that aligns to its
operational responsibilities. The DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis has responsibilities under
Title 628 to deliver intelligence to SLTT and private sector partners and develop intelligence from
those partners for the Department and the IC. In addition, it provides intelligence support to the
NCCIC’s private sector information sharing mission including gathering intelligence requirements
from critical private sector companies and if the DHS National Protection and Programs Directorate
concurs with the requirements can submit as formal requirements into the intelligence process.
The FBI collects and coordinates the sharing of relevant intelligence and other information between
FBI domestic personnel and FBI staff assigned to Legal Attaché offices around the world;
coordinates the sharing of intelligence among and between federal agencies and international
intelligence and law enforcement elements; produces and shares analytical products, including those
that assess threats to the homeland and inform related planning, capability development, and
operational activities; and coordinates with ODNI mission and support centers that provide unique
capabilities for homeland security partners.29
The National Security Agency Cybersecurity Threat Operations Center (NCTOC) is the 24/7/365
NSA element that characterizes and assesses foreign cybersecurity threats. The NCTOC informs
partners of current and potential malicious cyber activity through its analysis of foreign intelligence,
with a focus on adversary computer network attacks, capabilities, and exploitations. Upon request,
the NCTOC also provides technical assistance to U.S. Government departments and agencies.
The DoD actively characterizes and assesses foreign cybersecurity threats and informs the relevant
interagency partners of current and potential malicious cyber activity. Upon request, the DoD
intelligence components may provide technical assistance to U.S. Government departments and
agencies; other DoD elements may provide support to civil authorities in accordance with applicable
law and policy. The IC may identify classified information, indicating a potential credible cyber
threat to an SLTT, critical infrastructure owner/operator, or other private sector entity. In accordance
with Section 4 of Executive Order 13636, DHS and/or the FBI provide appropriate notification to the
targeted entity.30 Where available, declassified threat detection and mitigation information may also
be provided. In circumstances where the source of threat identification, nature of the adversary, or

286 U.S.C. §124a. 29 Title II of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, Public Law 108-458, 118 Stat. 3638,
outlines FBI intelligence authorities, as does Executive Order 12333; 50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq."
30 The NCIJTF has implemented the EO 13636 4(b) tracking system, Cyber Guardian, to record the production,
dissemination, and disposition of these notifications.
National Cyber Incident Response Plan
21
other factors of national security concern exist, incident response processes and procedures adhere to
all guidelines and directions for handling matters of national security.
Affected Entity’s Response
Entities affected by a significant cyber incident usually undertake activities to manage the effects of
the cyber incident on its operations, customers, and workforce, to include complying with various
legal, regulatory, or contractual obligations. When a federal agency is an affected entity, that agency
has primary responsibility for engaging in a variety of efforts to manage the impact of the cyber
incident. These efforts could include, but not limited to:
 Maintaining business or operational continuity;
 Mitigating potential health and safety impacts;
 Addressing adverse financial impacts;
 Protecting privacy;
 Managing liability risk;
 Complying with legal and regulatory requirements (including disclosure and notification);
 Engaging in communications with employees or other affected individuals; and
 Managing external affairs (e.g., media and congressional inquiries).
When a cyber incident affects a private entity, the Federal Government typically will not play a role
in this line of effort, but it will remain cognizant of the affected entity’s response activities,
consistent with the principles above and in coordination with the affected entity. The relevant SSA
will generally coordinate the Federal Government’s efforts to understand the potential business or
operational impact of a cyber incident on private sector critical infrastructure.
Cyber Incidents Involving Personally Identifiable Information
As it relates to cyber incidents affecting civilian Federal Government agencies, if the facts and
circumstances lead to a reasonable suspicion that the known or suspected cyber incident involves
personally identifiable information, then the appropriate senior agency officials for privacy will be
notified and lead any necessary personally identifiable information incident response process, as
required by the Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-07-1612, Safeguarding Against
and Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information (and its subsequent revisions),
and the agency’s Breach Response Plan.31